# Logistics of Teaching BACS 350

## Purpose

The purpose of this report is to provide a summary of the logistics of teaching BACS 350.  The report will cover the
following topics:

* History of the course
* Course objectives
* Course materials
* Course changes required


## History of the Course

I started teaching BACS 350 in 2018.  The course was designed to provide students with a hands-on experience in building
web applications.  The course was designed to be a practical course that would help students to develop their skills in
web development.

In 2020, I redesigned the course to change the underlying technology stack from PHP/MySQL to Python/Django/PostGres to
focus on building their skills needed in modern web development.

This year, I am teaching the course for the seventh time.  Every semester has seen optimization to ensure the students
gain marketable skills.

This course has been carefully designed, tested, and optimized over the past several years.


## Course Structure

As a business owner (for 12 years), I am training students that I would like to hire.  After completing this course,
students are ready to work as a professional web developer and capable of producing real projects.

Teaching is delivered through 45 recorded video lectures. Each lecture demonstrates a skill needed to complete the
weekly project. As students follow along, they learn how to build a web application step by step.

The course is designed to be practical and hands-on with 14 weekly projects.  Students are expected to work on realistic
projects and build their skills.

At the start of the course, students deploy there application at Digital Ocean and by the end of the course have a fully
functional enterprise application.

Grading is a combination of watching the videos, and completing the projects.  The materials are designed to teach the
needed skills.

I will be scheduling extended office hours to help students with their projects.  I will also be available to answer
questions via email.  Student will use an online calendar tool to schedule appointments for help.  Past experience has
shown that this is very effective, as the help is timely and personal.

The course is designed to be self-paced but regular feedback is given if students begin to lag behind.


## Course Materials

I have created a set of materials that are used in the course.  These materials include:

* 45 video lectures
* 14 weekly projects
* Course website
* Student Application to track progress

I have invested a great deal of time in creating these materials.  They are designed to be clear, concise, and easy to
follow.

I use Canvas to help with student communication and homework tracking and grading.  The course materials are delivered
through a combination of Canvas and my course website and my online school at Teachable.com.

For me to be successful, I need to use these materials.  This will require resetting the Syllabus and changing from the
path that Matt set for the course.  I will only be able to teach the course if I can use my materials and processes.


## Course Changes Required

The materials are available on [Shrinking World Academy](https://shrinking-world.org) as the course [Web
Apps](https://shrinking-world.org/p/learn-to-build-python-web-apps-in-1-month).  

The course is available to the public for $140, but I have created a special discount coupon for UNC students to get the
course for $35.  This price was set to be affordable for students but allows me to cover the server costs associated.

One problem that I forsee is that students have already purchased another textbook and will not be excited about buying
more materials.  One possible solution is for UNC to pick up the cost of materials to allow students free access.  Given
the extenuating circumstances, I believe that this is a reasonable request.

Another problem is that the course is already underway and that expectation have been set.  In order to move forward. I
will need to adjust the structure to reset it to what I had orginally created.

We are only one week into the class so it will be very easy to continue on the same schedule. I recommend that we drop
one project and have the students build out 13 projects rather than 14 this would allow us enough time to complete all
of the desired content for the course.

I will be traveling in Greece from September 15th to October 1st.  I will not be able to interact with the students 
during this time but I will host extended office hours throughout the rest of the semester.  I don't anticipate that this
will be a problem as I have already created the materials and the students will be able to work through the course at
their own pace.

I am prepared to teach this course starting this week, if I can gain approval on the changes that I have outlined.


