# A Year of Transformation

A year ago, my life was reshaped in ways I could never have anticipated. As a writer, I’m drawn to stories—the ones
around me, the ones inside me. But this past year has been an unexpected chapter of my own, a deeply personal story
woven with threads of grief, self-discovery, reconnection, and even joy. I found myself on four transformative journeys,
none of which I chose but each of which left a profound mark on my life. These weren't simple travels; they were
passages of the heart, emotional pilgrimages that brought me to a new understanding of both loss and life.

I now refer to these as my "Journeys of the Heart." Each journey marked a turning point, a “before” and “after” in my
story. These experiences demanded self-awareness, humility, and courage, and they challenged me to face things within
myself I hadn’t known were there. Looking back, I realize that each journey was essential; each step, unexpected as it
was, led me toward something I needed to learn, something essential for my growth.

For the past five years, I have been on what I call a Quest for Understanding. Turning 60 felt like crossing a threshold
into a new season of life. During my midlife years, I was focused on a Quest for Purpose, driven to make a difference,
to leave a positive impact. I poured my energy into efforts to influence change and make the world a better place. But
as 2020 unfolded, with a pandemic and political upheaval splintering our society, I found myself questioning that
purpose. The world was no longer the place I’d believed I could influence in meaningful ways, and it forced me to
reconsider the nature of change and control.

I came to a sobering realization: I couldn’t control the sweeping events that affected my life and the lives of those
around me. I felt the weight of that powerlessness, and it led me to a new quest—a Quest for Understanding. Rather than
seeking to change the world, I turned inward, determined to understand what I could control and to make peace with the
things I couldn’t. This shift was liberating, refocusing my energy on what was within my grasp: my actions, words,
thoughts, and emotions. This awareness allowed me to let go of everything beyond my control, to focus my energy where it
would truly make a difference—within.

Losing my wife last year set me on a path of re-evaluation. Everything I had built my life on—my beliefs, values, and
aspirations—needed reassessment. I found myself questioning what had once seemed certain. In the wake of that loss, I
embarked on the four journeys that would change me more deeply than I could have ever imagined. Each journey revealed a
new facet of myself, reshaping me in ways I hadn't thought possible. I am not the person I was a year ago. This year of
transformation has been the most profound experience of my life, illuminating a path forward I hadn't seen before—a path
that, despite the hardships, has led me to a renewed sense of peace and acceptance.