# From the Edge of Reality

by Mark Seaman

---

![Sunset Tree](img/sunset-tree.jpg)

What is poetry?  While prose seeks to enlighten, poetry seeks to inspire. 
Authors speak the language of the head, but poets speak the language of the
heart and the gut.  Words of logic are no match for words of passion.

Two views of reality ... one of the waking world ... one of the dream world. 
The world is filled with issues of politics, economics, survival, and conflict.
In this domain the laws of science rule.  Cause and Effect, Quantum Mechanics,
and Entropy.  Logic is king and every problem has a solution.

But there is another reality. When we sleep we enter another reality where
spirits move. This reality is driven by emotion and instinct.  It is impossible
to look at straight on.  But it is always in our peripheral vision.  It is the
domain of ecstasy and terror.  It is the reason to live,  yet this world
threatens our sanity if unaware or obsessed with it.

To be human is to struggle between these two realities. How can we make sense of
these two worlds that operate on such different rules?  Religion seeks to
explain the spirit world in logical terms by reducing the dream world to the
logic of morality and behavior.  While many of these explanations may be true
they remove the essence of mystery.

The poet is content with dabbling in spiritual concepts that cannot be
understood by the head and yet embraced by the gut.  The poet attempts to make
observations from the edge of reality that will enhance our ability to thrive in
the physical world.

We do not seek to abandon the world of logic in favor of the dream world.  We
seek,  merely,  to visit the spirit world - to gain insight that can be used
upon return to make us thrive.  Irony and awe are powerful tools to highlight
the nature of spiritual things without feeling a need to reduce them to logic. 
Yes, the rainbow is just refracted light but this misses the magic which is also
true.

The author is required to make observations that are substantiated by hard
evidence. They must struggle with the irony and abundant conflicts where logic
fails.  The poet has so such burden.  They describe a realm of spirits where
nothing makes sense and yet where things have a reality that trumps the
physical.

The poet dances while the author ponders.  Poetry is about emotion, observing
from a vantage point of irony and enjoying the insanity of it all. Perhaps is
the poet that sees clearly after all and can act as tour guide through the dream
world.

Join me in these observations from the edge of reality...


