# Hour of the Wolves

by Mark Seaman

---

The wolves hunt at night.  Under cover of darkness they search for blood.

Hunger drives them to seek fresh meat.   God's people are their favorite
delicacy.

They hunt in packs and attack from all sides. The brothers and sisters have
worked a strategy that is staggeringly effective.  Why change what works?

Fear is the leader of the pack and alone can do significant damage - but when
hunting with his brother is almost invincible. The unsuspecting humans are all
but helpless when Fear and Anger set upon them.

The brothers work together so effectively that few resist. In the darkness a
single howl may be all it takes to terrorize the prey and make them panic -
ready for the kill. Hatred and violence are the goal of the brothers and the
evidence that the end is near.

Hunger drives them to seek fresh meat.   God's people are their favorite
delicacy.

Perhaps the sisters are the deadliest of the wolves.  While the brothers rush in
with fangs bared the sisters are far more patient.  They play the long-game, and
ensure that the pack will never go hungry.

Shame and Sadness lie in wait ... silently ... patiently. No one knows they are
there. They drain their victims of love and hope which is the lifeblood needed
to survive.

Shame's job is to isolate the prey from any other humans and even from the
Maker. Relationships could provide the love that is the enemies' ultimate
weapon.  This must be prevented at all cost.

Sadness unleashes her fury of despair.  Self-pity and hopelessness poison the
soul of the prey to allow the pack to finish the kill.

Hunger drives them to seek fresh meat.   God's people are their favorite
delicacy.

The Maker has also released his agents into the night. But their mission is not
to steal, kill, and destroy.  Their goal is to make the wolves go hungry.  They
also move in packs and have a strategy.

Humility, Faith, Hope, and Love move in to protect the victims under attack. 
The humans that are under their protection will never be the fresh meat that the
wolves crave.  They will make it through the hour of the wolf.


