# Lesson 17 - Milestone 5 - Requirements

To successfully complete Milestone 5 and meet the needs of the customers, the Project Manager must
focus on completing the features, monitoring the project progress, communicating updates to
stakeholders, and conducting usability testing. These deliverables are key to ensuring that the
product meets the required standards and provides an excellent user experience. By following best
practices in each of these areas, the Project Manager can contribute to the success of the project
and deliver a high-quality product to the customers.


## Code Complete

The first step in completing features is to understand the requirements. This involves carefully
reviewing the project specifications and identifying the functionalities that need to be
implemented. The Project Manager must ensure that they have a clear understanding of what needs to
be done and how it aligns with the overall goals of the project.

Once the requirements are understood, the Project Manager can start the development process. This
involves coordinating with the development team and assigning tasks to individual team members. It
is essential to ensure that all team members are clear on their responsibilities and have the
necessary resources to complete their tasks.

Throughout the development process, it is crucial to regularly assess the progress made. The Project
Manager should schedule checkpoints to review the work completed by the team and ensure that it
meets the required standards. This helps to identify any issues or challenges early on and allows
for timely resolution.

In addition to monitoring progress, it is also essential to prioritize tasks. The Project Manager
should work closely with the development team to identify critical features and ensure that they
are given priority. This helps to ensure that the most important functionalities are completed
first and allows for early feedback from stakeholders.

Once the features are developed, thorough testing is necessary. The Project Manager should work with
the Quality Assurance team to conduct comprehensive testing of the functionalities. This involves
systematically testing each feature to ensure that it works as intended and meets the required
specifications.

Any issues or bugs encountered during testing should be documented and addressed promptly. The
Project Manager should work with the development team to resolve these issues and ensure that the
features are fully functional and free of any errors.

Once all the features are developed and thoroughly tested, the Project Manager should conduct a
final review. This involves reviewing each feature to ensure that it meets the expectations of the
customers and aligns with the project requirements. Any necessary adjustments or refinements should
be made at this stage to ensure that the features are ready for implementation.


## Tracking Project Progress

Monitoring the progress of the project is essential to ensure that it stays on track and meets the
desired objectives. The Project Manager is responsible for creating a Project Progress Monitoring
Report, which provides a comprehensive overview of the progress made in Milestone 5.

The first step in creating the report is to gather relevant data. This includes information on the
tasks completed, the time spent on each task, any issues or challenges encountered, and the overall
progress made in relation to the project timeline. The Project Manager should work closely with the
team members to collect this data accurately.

Once the data is gathered, it is crucial to analyze it effectively. The Project Manager should
identify trends, patterns, and areas that need improvement. This analysis helps to identify any
bottlenecks or inefficiencies in the project and provides insights for future planning.

Based on the analysis, the Project Manager can then create the Project Progress Monitoring Report.
The report should include an executive summary that provides a high-level overview of the progress
made, any challenges encountered, and the actions taken to address them. It should also include
detailed sections on each aspect of the project, such as development progress, testing progress,
and stakeholder engagement.

In addition to reporting on progress, the report should also include recommendations for
improvement. This could involve suggesting changes to processes, identifying areas for further
training or resource allocation, or proposing strategies to address any identified issues. The
Project Manager should present these recommendations in a clear and actionable manner.

The Project Progress Monitoring Report should be comprehensive yet concise. It should provide
stakeholders with an accurate understanding of the project's status and highlight any risks or
concerns that need to be addressed. The report should be reviewed by stakeholders, and their
feedback should be taken into account for future planning and decision-making.


## Communicating Updates to Stakeholders

Regular and effective communication with stakeholders is essential for the success of any project.
The Project Manager plays a vital role in ensuring that stakeholders are informed about the
progress made in Milestone 5 and any changes or challenges encountered.

The first step in stakeholder communication is to identify the key stakeholders. These are
individuals or groups who have a vested interest in the project's success and can influence its
outcome. The Project Manager should create a stakeholder communication plan that outlines the key
stakeholders, their communication preferences, and the frequency of communication.

Once the stakeholders are identified, the Project Manager should provide regular updates on the
project's progress. This could be in the form of written reports, presentations, or face-to-face
meetings. The updates should include information on the progress made in Milestone 5, any
challenges or changes encountered, and the actions taken to address them.

It is crucial to tailor the communication to the specific needs of each stakeholder. Some
stakeholders may require more detailed and technical updates, while others may prefer high-level
summaries. The Project Manager should consider the preferences and expectations of each stakeholder
and communicate accordingly.

In addition to providing updates, the Project Manager should also seek feedback from stakeholders.
This could involve soliciting their input on specific decisions or asking for their opinions on the
project's progress. The Project Manager should be open to feedback and actively listen to
stakeholders' concerns or suggestions.

Effective communication with stakeholders helps to keep them engaged and informed about the project.
It also promotes transparency and trust, which are essential for successful project execution. The
Project Manager should ensure that stakeholders feel valued and involved throughout the project's
lifecycle.


## Conducting Usability Testing

Usability testing is a crucial aspect of product development. It helps to evaluate the
user-friendliness and effectiveness of the product. The Project Manager is responsible for
conducting usability testing and creating a Usability Testing Report.

The first step in usability testing is to define the objectives. The Project Manager should clearly
outline what they want to achieve through usability testing. This could include identifying any
usability issues, evaluating the effectiveness of certain features, or gathering feedback on the
overall user experience.

Once the objectives are defined, the Project Manager can start recruiting participants for the
usability testing. The participants should represent the target audience and have a diverse range
of backgrounds and experiences. The Project Manager should ensure that the participants understand
the purpose of the testing and provide informed consent to participate.

During the usability testing, the Project Manager should carefully observe and record the
participants' interactions with the product. This could involve noting down any issues or
difficulties encountered, recording the participants' feedback, or analyzing their behavior and
reactions. It is crucial to create a comfortable and non-threatening environment for the
participants to ensure authentic feedback.

After the usability testing is completed, the Project Manager should analyze the data collected.
This involves reviewing the notes, feedback, and observations and identifying any common themes or
patterns. The Project Manager should look for usability issues, areas for improvement, and
suggestions for enhancing the overall user experience.

Based on the analysis, the Project Manager can then create the Usability Testing Report. The report
should provide a detailed summary of the findings from the usability testing, including any issues
or challenges identified, suggestions for improvement, and recommendations for enhancing the
product's usability. The report should be clear and actionable, providing specific steps that can
be taken to address any identified issues.

Creating a Usability Testing Report helps to ensure that the product meets the needs and
expectations of the customers. It provides valuable insights into the user experience and helps
guide future product development efforts.
