# Field Trip to Hell

### A Tour of the Nevada Test Site in 1980

In the summer of 1980, while working at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, I had an opportunity that would
forever alter my view of the nuclear arms race. As part of a team working on a project to log data from sensors, I spent
most of my time in the lab, meticulously building a wire-wrapped circuit board designed to collect information from the
field. At the time, I didn’t fully understand what these sensors were tracking, but I knew they were related to nuclear
tests. My task was to ensure the data was logged into a computer system for later analysis by scientists and engineers.

Toward the end of my summer stint at the lab, my boss extended an invitation that would take me out of the safe confines
of the laboratory and into a place I had only read about—the Nevada Test Site. This vast desert expanse in Nevada was
where the United States had conducted hundreds of nuclear detonations, both above and below ground, in an effort to
develop and perfect the deadliest weapons known to man. I had heard stories about the site, but nothing could have
prepared me for what I was about to witness. That trip became a day I will never forget, and the memories I carry from
it continue to haunt me decades later.


### A Journey Through a Nuclear Moonscape

As we drove through the Nevada desert, the eerie landscape began to unfold before me. It was unlike anything I had ever
seen. Craters dotted the earth in every direction, some small, others massive, each one a scar left by a nuclear
explosion. The terrain felt otherworldly, like a moonscape carved by humanity's pursuit of destructive power. As I
looked out the window of our vehicle, the enormity of what had happened in this place started to sink in. This was not
just any desert; this was the proving ground for the most dangerous weapons ever conceived.

During the Cold War, the Nevada Test Site was the primary location for the United States' nuclear testing program.
Between 1951 and 1992, more than 900 nuclear devices were detonated here, both in the atmosphere and underground. The
sheer number of tests was staggering, and seeing the physical evidence of those explosions in the form of massive
craters made it all the more real. These craters weren’t just holes in the ground; they were a testament to the
destructive force unleashed in the name of national security. This was a place where science had met war, where
innovation had collided with the terrifying possibility of annihilation.


### Frenchman Flat: A Town Vaporized

As we drove deeper into the test site, we reached a location that has become infamous in the annals of nuclear
history—**Frenchman Flat**. This flat desert area was the site of numerous nuclear tests, including the infamous tests
that involved a mock town being vaporized by a nuclear explosion. You've likely seen the footage—a small town, complete
with houses, cars, and mannequins standing in for people, is obliterated in an instant by a nuclear blast. The goal was
to study the effects of a nuclear explosion on civilian infrastructure, and Frenchman Flat became a real-life laboratory
for those grim experiments.

Seeing it in person was a profoundly unsettling experience. The destruction captured in film footage decades earlier was
still visible in the remains of structures and artifacts strewn across the desert floor. I saw highway overpasses that
had been melted, twisted into unrecognizable shapes as if they were made of styrofoam and tossed into a fire. Buildings,
once erected to simulate homes and businesses, were reduced to piles of rubble, scorched and fractured by the intense
heat and pressure of the nuclear blast. It was hard to comprehend the sheer force required to cause such devastation,
and even harder to imagine this kind of destruction being inflicted on a real city, with real people.

The imagery was haunting. Frenchman Flat represented more than just a testing ground for military science—it symbolized
the fragile line between safety and catastrophe. Here, in the remote Nevada desert, the full weight of nuclear weapons’
destructive capacity was laid bare. The mock town was designed to reflect what could happen to any real city in the
event of nuclear war, and that thought weighed heavily on me. The melted overpasses and decimated buildings were not
just remnants of a bygone era; they were stark warnings of the consequences we could face if these weapons were ever
used in anger.


### The Sedan Crater: A Monument to Thermonuclear Fury

After visiting Frenchman Flat, we moved on to another site that would leave a lasting impression on me—the **Sedan
Crater**. Created by a 104-kiloton thermonuclear explosion in July 1962 as part of *Operation Plowshare*, the Sedan
Crater is one of the most striking features of the Nevada Test Site. The goal of this test was to explore the use of
nuclear explosions for "peaceful" purposes, such as large-scale excavation for civil engineering projects. The result
was a crater that measured a quarter-mile in diameter and over 320 feet deep. 

Standing at the edge of the crater, I was struck by its sheer size and the power required to move such an enormous
amount of earth. In just a few seconds, the nuclear device had displaced over 12 million tons of rock and soil, creating
a perfectly conical hole in the ground. It was an awe-inspiring sight, but also a deeply unsettling one. The crater was
a monument to humanity's ability to harness forces beyond our control, and it served as a reminder of the risks we were
willing to take in the pursuit of technological advancement.

My boss, a seasoned veteran of the nuclear weapons program, warned me that the Sedan Crater was still highly
radioactive, even though the test had taken place 18 years earlier. Our dosimeters, which measured our exposure to
radiation, began to tick up as we approached the crater. We were allowed to linger for only about 10 minutes before the
radiation levels became too dangerous. The idea that this place was still "hot" after nearly two decades was sobering, a
stark reminder of the long-lasting effects of nuclear detonations. The half-lives of the radioactive isotopes produced
in the explosion meant that this crater would remain hazardous for generations to come.


### A Lasting Impact

That day at the Nevada Test Site was more than just a field trip—it was a profound, life-changing experience. Seeing
firsthand the results of nuclear detonations, both in the form of vaporized towns and colossal craters, left me with a
deep sense of unease. The devastation at Frenchman Flat and the lingering radiation at the Sedan Crater were stark
reminders of the destructive power humanity had unleashed.

After that visit, I could never look at the nuclear arms race the same way again. The sleepless nights that followed
were filled with thoughts of the fragility of life in the face of such overwhelming destructive power. I wondered
whether the world could truly survive the threat of nuclear war, and the idea that so many of these tests had been
conducted, often with little regard for the long-term consequences, was deeply troubling.

I often refer to that experience as a "field trip to hell" because it gave me a glimpse of a world that I hope never
comes to pass — a world where nuclear weapons are not just tested but used. The Nevada Test Site stands as a reminder of
what we are capable of, both for good and for ill. It’s a place that continues to haunt my thoughts, and one that I hope
future generations will learn from, so they never have to witness the devastation of nuclear war firsthand.

The Nevada Test Site is now known as the Nevada National Security Site, and its legacy lives on in the form of  
environmental contamination and the ongoing efforts to clean up the radioactive remnants of the Cold War. The site
remains a testament to the dangers of nuclear weapons and still haunts my dreams.

