# Ministry Philosophy

Mike Webb is a man with a vision for ministry that truly embodies the concept of inclusivity. In his
approach to serving the community, he prioritizes breaking down barriers, empowering marginalized
groups, and embracing diversity in all forms. This is reflected in his five key areas of focus:
inclusivity, women in ministry and marriage partnership, every tribe and language, equity and
inclusion, and care for defenseless. We can all learn from Mike's approach and work towards
embodying these values in our own lives and ministries.

At the heart of Mike Webb's ministry philosophy is inclusivity. He believes that all are welcome, no
matter who they are or where they come from. Cultural competence, open-mindedness, and flexibility
are all critical components of this approach. Mike recognizes and celebrates the inherent value of
diversity in leadership and is committed to creating spaces in which everyone can thrive. By
breaking down barriers, Mike strives to ensure that everyone feels welcome and that power
structures are dismantled.

Mike also champions women in ministry, seeing them as essential partners in God's work. He
understands that women have been historically marginalized in the church and is committed to
empowering them in leadership roles. With a biblical basis for equality, Mike believes that women
should be given the same opportunities as men to serve in the church. He sees marriage as a
partnership, where both individuals are valued for their unique contributions.

Every tribe and language is another key area of focus for Mike. He views cross-cultural engagement
as essential to the ministry and seeks to celebrate the cultural identities of all those he serves.
Learning and teaching are key components of this approach, as Mike recognizes that
language barriers can be significant obstacles to effective communication and understanding.
Missions, both local and global, are also critical components of this approach.

Equity and inclusion are another essential pillar of Mike's ministry philosophy. He is committed to
fighting for justice and advocating for marginalized groups. Serving underserved communities is a
top priority, and Mike believes that creating equitable spaces means recognizing and addressing
systemic inequalities. He is determined to be a voice for those who have been silenced and to work
for change in all its forms.

Finally, caring for the defenseless is an area that is particularly meaningful to Mike. He believes
that we are called to care for the poor and homeless, protect vulnerable populations, and support
orphanages and foster homes. Humanitarian work such as disaster relief is also critical to this
approach. Mike is deeply committed to serving those who are in need and is motivated by the belief
that it is our responsibility as Christians to love and care for one another.

