## Milestone 4: Testing and Quality Assurance Goals for Software Engineers

By focusing on defect resolution time, test coverage, bug severity distribution, and testing
efficiency, they can contribute to the overall quality assurance process and help ensure that the
software app meets all requirements and functions correctly.

### Defect Resolution Time

The first goal for software engineers in Milestone 4 is to reduce the average resolution time for
resolving the open issues.  This might be new features that still need to be implemented or defects
in the existing code. 

Velocity can be measured by tracking the time it takes for an issue to be reported, assigned to a
developer, fixed, and verified. The goal should be to have most issues resolved within a certain
timeframe, such as 48 hours or less. By reducing the defect resolution time, the team can ensure
that issues are addressed promptly and minimize any negative impact on the project timeline.

The velocity should be used to predict the release date which should be updated weekly.  Matching the
reality of the actual project rather than the desired release date forces a change in project scope
when necessary.

### Test Coverage

Another important goal for software engineers in Milestone 4 is to achieve a certain level of test
coverage. Work must be coordinated with the QA engineer to ensure that test coverage is measured
properly.

This can be measured by determining the percentage of code that is covered by automated
tests. The goal should be to have at least 80% test coverage, meaning that at least 80% of the code
is tested by automated test cases. By increasing the test coverage, the team can have greater
confidence in the reliability and stability of the software app, as more potential defects are
caught early on.

### Bug Severity Distribution

A third goal for software engineers in Milestone 4 is to achieve a balanced distribution of bug
severities. This can be measured by categorizing each reported bug into different severity levels,
such as critical, high, medium, and low. The goal should be to have a balanced distribution of bugs
across all severity levels, with most bugs falling into the medium severity category. This
indicates that the team has addressed critical issues and is now working towards improving the
overall quality and performance of the software app.

### Testing Efficiency

The fourth goal for software engineers in Milestone 4 is to improve testing efficiency. This can be
measured by tracking the number of test cases executed per hour or per day. The goal should be to
increase the number of test cases executed within a given time period without compromising the
quality of testing. By improving testing efficiency, the team can optimize their testing efforts
and ensure that all necessary test cases are executed within the project timeline.

