## Goals for the Requirements Role (or Project Manager) in Milestone 4

As the person responsible for managing the requirements in Milestone 4 of the project, your main
focus should be on ensuring that the testing and quality assurance processes are carried out
effectively and efficiently. By following the steps outlined in the general goals for Milestone 4,
you can contribute to the successful completion of this phase. Additionally, there are four
specific and measurable deliverables that you should strive to achieve:

### Updated and Reviewed Product Backlog

One of your key responsibilities is to review the product backlog before the testing phase begins.
Ensure that all the features identified in the requirements document are accurately represented in
the product backlog. Verify that each requirement is specified clearly and that there are no
contradictions or omissions. Aim to complete this review process within a specific timeframe, such
as one week after the start of Milestone 4.

Create a burn-down graph to track all features that still need to be implemented. Also track all of
the outstanding issues and product defects.  There should be one place that tracks all of the work
that needs to be completed before the product is released show this as a graph that is updated
weekly.  Velocity is the rate at which the burn-graph is moving toward completion.  Use this to
estimate the current release date.

### Test Plan Document

To guide the testing efforts, you should work with the QA engineer to create a comprehensive testing
strategy document. This document should outline the types of tests that will be conducted, such as
functional testing, regression testing, and performance testing. It should also specify which areas
of the software app will be automated and which ones will require manual testing. Additionally, the
testing environment and necessary resources should be identified and documented. Aim to complete
this testing strategy document within two weeks after the start of Milestone 4.

In order to execute the testing strategy effectively, you should create a detailed test plan. This
plan should provide step-by-step instructions for executing each type of test identified in the
testing strategy document. It should include information on the test data that will be used, the
expected results, and any necessary preconditions. The test plan should also specify the timeline
for executing the tests and assign responsibilities to the testers. Aim to complete this test plan
within three weeks after the start of Milestone 4.

### Defect Tracking and Resolution

Throughout the testing phase, defects and issues will be identified. As the requirements role
(or project manager), you should establish a robust defect tracking system to log and monitor these
issues. This system should include a clear process for prioritizing and assigning resources to
resolve the defects promptly. Aim to continuously monitor the defect tracking system and ensure
that fixes are thoroughly tested before being deployed. The goal is to maintain a high level of
defect resolution and ensure that the app is as bug-free as possible by the end of Milestone 4.

By focusing on these specific deliverables and ensuring their completion within the designated
timeframes, you can effectively fulfill the requirements role (or project manager) responsibilities
in Milestone 4. Remember to communicate and collaborate with the testing team and other
stakeholders to ensure a smooth and successful testing and quality assurance process.