# My Life Coach

by Duke Lancaster

<a class="btn brown" href="https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/8rjipg4z4nvxeis2wbus7/20231228_073801.mp4?rlkey=0s0l45a7vyfhx0l0p3sbc5hax&dl=0" target="video">Watch the Video</a>


I met Stacie in late 2020. She was leading a peer coaching cohort that I had been involved in for a while. Coaching is
an interesting role… essentially it is to bring out the best someone has in them and to help them discover and in my
case, focus on, the things that will move them forward. They often become more of a confidant and sounding board. Stacie
became all of that over the next few years, but more so, Stacie became a trusted friend.

We were still neck-deep in the COVID pandemic when I began working with her. Clearly this was one of the most complex
and difficult seasons that we in the coaching cohort had ever faced as pastors. Having someone to talk things out with
and to really just express the concerns and thoughts we were wrestling with was so important to us In that season..

She might do little more than listen, then rephrase our thoughts in a way that would bring clarity and simplicity to our
challenges. She would always interject something that would continue our exploration into our own thoughts and concerns.
I can remember discussions where She simply finished the conversation with, “It sounds like you already know what to
do.”

Towards the end of 2021 Marie and I were wrestling with a major transition in our life and ministry. We were feeling
like God was leading us out of our church and into another ministry and I was super stressed over many aspects of this
transition. Specifically, I could not imagine how to actually make a living doing what he Invited us to do.

But after one more meeting where I have repeated myself multiple times she summed it up and said. “Duke, it sounds to me
like you just don't trust the Lord.” It was a little bit like being smacked in the face. I don't know why that sounded
different than anything I had already heard but it was one of those clarifying moments. “Yes, Stacie, I think you just
nailed it.” It was exactly what I needed at that time and ultimately had a direct impact on our future.

I think more than anything Stacie was an encourager. I always looked forward to any conversation we were going to have
just because I knew at the end of it. I would be energized and feel more certain of the things that God was inviting us
to do and the situations we were facing. Over time I began to see her as my biggest cheerleader. She had a way of just
affirming and encouraging. I once told her that I thought she needed to be my Marketing director. She believed in me
more than I believed in myself.

Somebody like that will motivate you to do much greater things than you would have even thought to attempt if they
hadn’t been there. One of those things we dealt with was that I had expressed that there was a book or two that I felt
the Lord had encouraged me to write and I have struggled and struggled with. I just could not get myself started. she
never let up, not for one second, pushing me to do this book. I'm still not close to having a book written. But the very
fact that I'm still pursuing it is 100% because of her constant encouragement.

The only reason I think I can write one is because she believed that I could write one. She believed it enough to invite
us to come and spend a few weeks living with her and Mark in order to help, encourage, and coach me through the process.

That is somebody who believes in you. And it meant everything to me. I will miss her, as will those of us who called her
our coach and our friend.
