# My Mother 

by Josiah Seaman

<a class="btn brown"
href="https://photos.app.goo.gl/uJjAXC3GXtRirnZP6"
target="video">Watch the Video</a>


My mom lived out an example of what it meant to love others with all your heart. Her wisdom and maturity were not a
matter of age. She lost her own father when she was 15. Stacie lived her whole life in the knowledge that there are no
guarantees. Every moment, every person counted, and nothing was taken for granted.

If you asked me to define compassionate, I could only picture my mother, her life, and point to it. Compassion is
Stacie. But “compassion” doesn’t encompass everything she was. Perhaps the right word is charity, in its original
meaning: Christ-like love. We don’t use charity that way anymore. Maybe because not enough people have someone like
Stacie in their lives. 

Mom didn’t just love those who were close to her: family or those that were convenient. She loved everyone: truly, like
Jesus taught. I remember as a 10 year old going to Mexico with Amor Ministries to build houses for those in need. I
remember, on that trip, Mom’s concern for me when I wasn’t feeling well. I remember her encouragement to Mike Webb, and
to the whole construction team. 

I remember she taught me how to love people unconditionally. To see the person who is scared and frustrated behind the
aggressive people. 

My mom taught me to see need and do something about it. 

As a parent now I can look back on my childhood and see my mom should be submitted for sainthood based purely on her
patience alone. 

I was not an easy kid to raise, especially in elementary grades. I clearly remember my third grade teacher losing her
patience with my shenanigans over and over, but I don’t have a single memory of my mom losing her temper. The meanest
thing she said to me in my entire life is that I spread my peanut butter too slowly. No joke: that’s where she maxed
out. I think most of us would have a hard time getting through a single day without saying something more critical, let
alone a lifetime.

My mom was always the safe place to go to, even when I was the rule breaker, to make amends. She was my refuge and calm
in the storm. I don’t know what I’m going to do without her now. We had a great relationship that endured and became
stronger as adults. 

Mom has always been our family’s cornerstone for understanding reality, both good and bad. She was not swayed by fads or
politics. She had a clear idea of what following Jesus meant and she lived that out every day. She’s was our reference
point.

My mom saw each person as the individual they were and didn’t try to compare them or lump them into categories. As
siblings, that meant each of us were free to be ourselves, while being loved and cherished for that. We were all able to
give each other room to grow, while still being close and cheering each other on, through my mom’s example. 

The only shadow that I live in is my parent’s shadow; both of them are such wonderful people.  I’m not sure I could ever
have a legacy like my mom’s: All the people here are a testament to how wide those roots stretch. And even though the
tree’s been chopped down, I know Mom continues to nourish and sustain an uncountable number of people. 
