# The Spiritual Life

by Karen Fields

Back in the summer of 2017, I had the opportunity to speak at the Vineyard National Conference, sharing a TED Talk on
"Spiritual Mentoring”. Stacie was there and told me later how much the topic really resonated with her.

A few months later, she contacted me about beginning a spiritual direction relationship together. A year later, I
invited her to join a cohort of life coaches being trained in Salt Lake City, and for the last 5 years we also worked
together as coaches, sharing our mutual commitment to support and develop Christian leaders.

Stacie and I met monthly for years, and I grew to know her both as a friend and as someone desiring to pursue a
deepening intimacy with Jesus. I remember she once said that the "grace” she wanted from God was a deeper relationship
with Him, and for each day to challenge her.

Having a purpose was very important to Stacie! She told me "I'm a people-person and a manager”. She was always asking
herself "Is everyone OK?” She felt most fulfilled when she was able to function in her gifts as part of a team. And I
think Stacie's family was her favorite "team”!

Once I asked Stacie - what are you most passionate about? She said her 'passion' was relationships - both with God and
with others. She especially valued those in her life who showed they 'knew her' by supporting her whatever she did, and
not making her feel she was less; those were the people she most valued in her life.

What really made Stacie happy was to be affirmed by others as wise, needed, and capable. She felt deeply the pain and
struggles of others so, unsurprisingly, Stacie's life focus had 3 elements - praying for people in the power of the Holy
Spirit, coaching Christian leaders, and writing and publishing.

What was especially life-giving to her was sharing her abilities as an editor with those she worked with to publish
books on Amazon. She also really enjoyed teaching several courses on Emotionally Healthy Spirituality with Mark in their
church community. She adored spending time her family (who all live locally now) and she loved travel, especially the
many 'road trips' she and Mark enjoyed together.

Stacie described the recent years of her life as being a "deep season of grace.” She was learning to wait on God for His
timing - which she said really meant trusting God. During the pandemic, Stacie began to accept her many limitations –
she said "I realized I don't have to 'pull the trigger' on everything now, just wait a little longer for God's timing.”

She was learning to pay attention, stay in the present moment, and not dwell on thoughts of what could be. She said,
"God is calling me to 'lay everything on the altar.'” Stacie described this internal shift as a "death of pride”.

Her purpose shifted from "doing” - based on pleasing others - to "being”. Her meditations in the Beatitudes helped
Stacie focus on God's perspective for her life - one of being receptive, rather than initiating or being in control. She
described this shift to me as being a 'peacemaker' rather than a 'peacekeeper'.

In trying to capture the essence of Stacie's life, I was reminded of a poem I wrote some years ago to describe the
mystery and possibilities of our human existence. And, like Alice, Stacie has now passed that barrier of mortality to
enter the "hidden world” of God's loving presence:


**"The Looking Glass”** by Karen Fields

Like Alice and her looking glass; a shimmering reality beyond my ken. Reach out, and touch the sheer, watery face; see
it pool around your finger. Poke deep, break the surface of my awareness to experience the hidden world of mystery, of
unfathomable depths my soul has yet to plumb.

Daily I look at myself reflected in the people and things I know; yet, I miss the significance of my existence, lost in
clamor of a life lived loud. Dare I reach into the amorphous void, those feelings fraught with meaning? For one such as
I who's willing to see myself as I truly appear?

Step through the looking glass, enter the silence, a rippling barrier bars me from entering God's presence only if I
continue in the noise on this side. Looking back over my shoulder to see what remains of my world, I listen, in silence,
for that one, quiet Voice; in stillness I encounter God.