# The Love of My Life

by Mark Seaman

<a class="btn brown"
href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1WQnaZ70xCi67JoTjavXR5gRsvUpkzQWh/view"
target="video">Watch the Video</a>


## My Lover

I've known Stacie most of my life. We first fell in love at 15 but were not quite ready to get married then. By 19 we
entered into a relationship that would reshape both of our lives.

If I were to live five lifetimes, I would not expect to find anyone like Stacie. She is the love of my life. She is my
lover, my confidant, my best friend, my partner, my companion, my wife. She is the mother of my children and the
grandmother of my grandchildren. She is my soulmate.

Stacie is the most loving person I have ever known. She is kind and compassionate. She is generous and forgiving. She is
both intelligent and wise (often a rare combination) and always knows the right thing to say.

She has shaped my life in ways I can not describe. She has made me a better person. She has called me out when I was
wrong. She has encouraged me when I was right.

She has given me the courage to fight and the courage to stand down. She has cheered me at times and stopped me from
foolishness at others.


## Old Souls at a Tender Age

We were young but we were old souls. We had both experienced a lot of pain in our 15 years. Falling in love was a
surprise for both of us since we shared a desk in sixth grade and hated each others guts.

It seemed like we were from different worlds. I was a wanna be hippie, who had just experienced a dramatic conversion a
few weeks earlier. She was a naive Baptist girl. We found ourselves in the same youth group.

One night we attended a crazy Pentecostal revival meeting and sang a song where we all held hands. When the song ended
we continued holding hands. That was the beginning of great connection.

About a week later, Stacie's family was leaving to visit relatives in California for the Christmas break. I was a little
sad because I thought I might miss her. We were standing in the parking lot at Flagstaff High School when she grabbed me
and gave me a passionate kiss. Wow, Christian girls can do that? I was hooked from that first kiss.

Our first year dating was characterized by long walks in the woods and hours spent talking about life. Most of our
social life was with the youth group at our church. I had never met anyone that was as deep a thinker as Stacie, and she
seemed interested in everything.


## Shaped by Pain

I soon learned that she was an old soul like me. We both thought more like 30-year olds than 15. Her father had died
weeks before of a sudden heart attack. The family was disintegrating and it fell to Stacie to become the mom. Her mom
could not handle the grief and acted out in predictable ways.

Her diagnosis of scoliosis put her in a back brace that went from neck to hips. Soon she would need back surgery to
insert a 9-inch metal rod along her spine to straighten her. I remember getting in trouble for ditching school to travel
to Phoenix to visit Stacie in the hospital.

A year later her mom remarried a South Dakota farmer and they moved to the farm. Stacie was bedridden when they made the
trip, so they moved her in the back of the camper. In South Dakota she was put in a body cast and sent to a new high
school. Our first year and a half of dating included relentless trauma.

I had already experienced my trauma earlier. At 13 I faced an existential crisis and often contemplated how I would end
my life. During a summer with my aunt and uncle in Kentucky I was introduced to the hippie culture. I relished the
freedom and soon adopted the values of "Sex, Drug, and Rock and Roll" as a lifestyle.

During this time I had several near death experiences, but I never really expected to see my 20th birthday. I grew
increasingly cynical and my stretch goal became to live in Haight-Ashbury district in San Francisco. Many of my first
did actually die or were sent to prison by the age of 20.

Amid this turmoil I started hanging out with Christians. Two months after my 15th birthday I turned my life over to
Jesus. I figured I had nothing to lose and if it was actually real I had the world to gain. It did not happen in a day
but within a few weeks there was no turning back.


## Spiritual Fruit

Many people talk about the fruit of the Spirit. But Stacie actually lived it. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness,
goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. These were how people describe Stacie. She was the most fruitful
person I have ever known.

From her first kiss to her last breath, Stacie was my lover. She embodied and demonstrated God's love for me in a way
that transformed my life. 

I knew early on that I wanted to spend my life with her.  At that point I was powerless against her charms. While
romance fades, true love only grows. 

From that tender and fragile start our love and commitment has only grown stronger. We had no idea what we would have to
face. But we did know that we wanted to face it together.

Indeed we were old souls at a young age, yet now we are young souls at an old age. We have been together for 49 years
and today would have been our 45th wedding anniversary.

