# Breaking Gender Barriers

by Rachel Dawson

When my family felt called to pick up and move our lives to Greeley, CO, Stacie and Mark were the very first people to
invite us to their house for dinner. It was my first time away from home, moving to a strange new city and adopting a
new family of faith. I had grown a lot but always sensed God calling me to more growth, specifically in the area of
becoming a pastor. Stacie was an instrumental part of that growth for me. God knew I would need encouragement and
someone to help me keep going. Stacie was that person.

Women in ministry has always been a touchy subject. Some feel admittedly opposed while others feel righteously
justified. But Stacie was a constant encouragement of my leadership journey. She coached me and encouraged me when I
wanted to give up. She never let emotion run the conversation but rather, she relied on the guidance of the Holy Spirit.
I can remember so many moments of my own frustration, where Stacie encouraged me to say “yes” again and keep going. I
always felt I had an advocate in her and I didn’t need to hide my talents or gifts, but could humbly bring them to the
Lord and to his church.

And Stacie did this for countless others. She was a leader throughout the Vineyard movement, speaking at retreats,
coaching other pastors and missionaries and trusting that the gifts God gives are meant to be put to good use. She was
never bound by stereotypes, but rather looked to the Holy Spirit for what he was “up to” among those she led. Even
within our leadership team at the Greeley Vineyard, she has always encouraged us to lead in the gifts we each possess,
outside of what is normal or expected.

Most recently, Stacie and Mark invited The Lancasters to come and encouraged our ministry team. They hosted Duke and
Marie, organized an evening with dinner and the meeting. They invested in the cost to make all that happen. They knew
that this connection would bring much needed encouragement to our team. The words I personally received from God that
night will stay with me forever. And this is the kind of person Stacie was in every faucet of her life. She paved paths
for people to more readily use their gifts and talents for God’s Kingdom.

Through her own example, I always felt I could live out my call as a wife, mother and pastor and I didn’t have to
choose. Stacie was in many ways “ahead of her time” in her own examples of leadership in work and ministry. She had a
boldness while remaining calm and resolved. She paved the way for generations to come, through her own journey and I am
grateful for her immense impact on my life. And I am sure that her legacy will live on through the lives of those who
have benefitted from her leadership.

