# My Second Mother

by Samantha Seaman

<a class="btn brown" href="https://photos.app.goo.gl/jiYQcVJ3CwDW9uS6A" target="video">Watch the Video</a>


On December 13th, 2023, it was made precisely and unsparingly clear to me how much we don't know about other people's
lives, about what happens where we do not see.

How the universe you thought you lived in can shatter with two simple words, and the world outside your circles can just
continue on as if nothing has changed. As if one of the keystones of your community hasn't just crumbled. As if your
axis hasn't overturned.

The sun still rises. Stores still open. Mail still comes. People still walk dogs and make dinner and wash dishes and go
to work.

That the whole world doesn't pause to keen its grief with you feels like a betrayal. Stacie was such a presence, such an
intense light, how could her passing not go unnoticed by the world?

(It wasn't—we're here and proof of it. And God stood witness, was there with her, with you. But standing in a checkout
line, or out in public at all, it doesn't feel that way.) 

I call myself a writer, but in times like these, I find myself bereft of words. I reach for paint, for crafts, for
whisks and spatulas and recipes instead. I never know how to turn feelings into words, only into actions and objects. I
find quotes online, and let other people express it instead: 

"But what is grief, if not love persevering?” 

"I will not say do not weep, for not all tears are evil."

"Her absence is like the sky, spread over everything.”

"No one is finally dead until the ripples they cause in the world die away.”

One of my earliest memories of Stacie, of the family, was when I was brought to the celebration of Mark and Stacie's
25th anniversary, in the basement of a church. Such a public and communal declaration, celebration, of love enduring,
was a foreign concept to me.  But I remember that slideshow. All the pictures. Of how joyous everyone was, the laughter
and congratulations and the overflowing love. And I knew then how special and unique this family was, and how different
from anything I'd experienced.  

We all grow up in a family with its own culture and expectations, shaped by all our parents before us. And then we
marry, and are thrust into a whole other culture, the one which shaped our beloved.  I never knew how to step into that,
how to go from outsider to member, but it didn't matter: Stacie always held a place for me. 

Stacie held a place for many people at her table. I can count on one hand the number of times over the last two decades
that our shared holidays did not have additional people at the table. Friends, colleagues, someone who just needed a
place. She always invited people to join in.  She always welcomed them into the joy and warmth and love that was, and
is, characteristic of her, of the family she helped make. 

Our pop culture likes to make jokes about terrible mothers-in-law — you know the ones. They never applied to Stacie. She
was not my mother-in-law—she was my second mother. When my mother could not be there, Stacie was. She looked in on me
when I was sick, encouraged me when I was struggling, taught me when I had questions, as much as with her own children.
And she was always, always delighted to greet me with a chirpy "Hi! It's a Sam!” 

Josiah said to me, a few days after, "She's such a hard act to follow. I don't think I can do it alone.” My reply is as
much to all of you as it was to him: You won't do it alone.  It takes all of you, every one who was loved by and loved
her: you all have a piece of her living memory, and you can all share it onwards. You can all be Stacies for each other. 

Stacie's passing, as shockingly unexpected as it was, has broken across all our lives. But I know, following her
example, we will invite each other in. We will hold places for each other and for many, many more. We will love each
other. We will mend each other with the gold of her living legacy. 
