# Chapter 1 - Development Tools

-   Skill 1 - Install Python & Django
-   Skill 2 - Github & VS Code
-   Skill 3 - Create Django App
-   Project 1 - Setup Development Tools



### Web Servers and Clients

This book will teach you how to build web applications that will run on a phone, tablet, laptop, or
desktop computer. This same app will adjust the display size according to the device being used.
The layout of all the views will change to match the device. This is called Responsive Web Design.

Web apps are the primary way that people interact with servers today. The devices that users
interact with (mobile, laptops, or desktops) are called clients, while the remote computers are
called servers. This Client/Server architecture is fundamental to the internet.

The internet is a gigantic network that allows servers to be accessed from anywhere in the world.
Commercial routers provide addressing to get to a specific machine from a client device. An URL
(Uniform Resource Locator) is an address of a specific machine page or resource on some machine on
the internet.

A web server is software that runs on a remote computer that responds to a request for an URL and
generates a response that is sent back to the client. The client makes a request and the server
sends a response. The client software then displays the response to the user. A web browser is the
software that displays the responses to the user and allows users to make web requests.

### Building Web Apps

There are two types of web servers on the internet. Some servers simply return files for a request.
These files might be HTML, JavaScript, images, or other asset types, but they are always static.
These servers are called static web servers since they only respond with static information.

On the other hand, dynamic web servers are far more interesting. They receive web requests and may
do complex calculations and store data in a database. For each request, the server must create an
appropriate response and may need to invoke other computers in the process.

Static web servers are useful but are quite limited in their capability. Dynamic servers allow the
programmer to perform any kind of work necessary to create the desired function. Building a web
application requires a dynamic server that executes code to generate the response, usually working
with a database.

The pages are generated by code written in a general programming language such as Python,
JavaScript, C#, or Java.

### Common Components of Web Apps

I've been building web pages and applications since the beginning of the internet and have written
over fifty complete applications. I have commercial experience with all of the most common
languages and frameworks for creating web apps. Most web apps have several common components.

-   Mobile device app
-   Front-end (user experience)
-   Business logic
-   Database

### Front-end/Back-end

Web development has gotten surprisingly sophisticated and complex. When browser software first began
to execute JavaScript code there was a fundamental shift of software logic from the server to the
client. Web pages were no longer simple static assets that were displayed by the browser. Now
complex code logic was sent from the server to be executed in the client browser.

Eventually, this took on the name of Front-end Development. Powerful JavaScript frameworks were
increasingly used to create a dynamic user experience that runs on the client side of the
internet.

Back-end Development focuses on the code logic that runs on the server. This usually revolves around
the database and may include a web service API to communicate with other computers. The back-end
software is typically built using a framework that performs all of the common tasks.

Full-stack Development involves both the front-end and the back-end. Sometimes these are separated
out into different responsibilities. Modern web development is not based on a single tool but
rather a stack of interdependent tools. A Full-stack Developer must be fluent across the full range
of languages and frameworks.

The first decision to be made on a project is what tool stack to use.

### Tool Stack
In this textbook, we will be using the following tools for back-end development (server-side code)

-   Virtual Studio Code - Development Environment
-   Django - Web Development Framework
-   Python - Programming Language
-   MySQL - Database

### Web Frameworks

There are many reasons to use a web framework. It provides reusable code that enables you to quickly
build an app. This code solves all the common problems. We leverage tens of thousands of hours of
effort. This reduces the amount of code you need to write to only 10% of the code needed for an
application.

Other Frameworks and Languages

-   .Net - C#
-   Rails - Ruby
-   Laravel - PHP
-   Django - Python

### Development Tools

There is a wide variety of great tools available to work with Django applications. For this textbook, I have selected tools that balance ease of learning with robust power. This gives you a quick
start but also enables you to scale your efforts as needed.

There are several tools in our development stack, from low-level and moving to higher levels.

-   Git - version control system
-   Github - web service to manage Git repositories
-   Microsoft Visual Studio Code - integrated development environment
-   Python with Django - environment for building web apps

Each of these tools must be installed and set up in order to provide a powerful platform on which to
build our application code. There are many other tools that could be used, but these tools are
proven to get you up and running with the least amount of work.

### Django Projects

Django is a web development framework that contributes all of the generic code logic for your
applications. You will create a Django project that will be deployed on an application service
(such as AWS, Google App Engine, or Digital Ocean). You will use the features in the Django
Framework to accelerate the build of your custom application.
During development, you will build reusable logic specific to your application. Django provides an
easy way to reuse code in other projects by encapsulating them as modules called "Apps". A Django
project is built from one or more apps. The reuse of the \"app\" name is somewhat unfortunate and
causes some confusion for learning Django initially.

Just remember a Django Project (Application) is built from multiple Apps(Django component modules).
We will spend a lot of time working with this and it will become obvious very quickly.

### Setting Up Development Tools

Before we build an application using Django we need to set up an environment that will support our
code development. There are several different tools that need to be configured. These are presented
as specific skills with step-by-step instructions. Go through these one at a time. Do not go on to
the next one until you are sure that you have it right.

-   Visual Studio
-   Github
-   Python Environment
-   Development Server

### Code Sharing

Programming projects typically start with existing code from someone else. By cloning a repo you can
get a copy of the code to work with on your local computer. Your changes are mixed in with the
other changes that occur on the repo that you cloned. To get these changes you do a
"git pull".

To share the changes you make with others you do a "git push" command. This merges your recently
committed changes back to the repo that you cloned from. You are only permitted to do this if you
have permissions to the remote repository.

If you are starting with someone else's code then you need to "Fork" the repository. This creates
a new repository that you own. You can push new changes to your repository without affecting the
one that you forked from. New changes to the upstream repo can be pulled to keep your forked repo
updated.

I have created a repo at
"https://github.com/Mark-Seaman/PythonWebApps". You will fork this repo to
  create "https://github.com/your-name/PythonWebApps". You will clone this repo on your local
  computer and use "git pull" and "git push" to sync your changes.

Skill #2 gives you step-by-step instructions for how to set up your repositories at Github and on
your local computer.


