# Chapter 3 - Basic Application

* Skill 7 - Create a Django App
* Skill 8 - Create Template View
* Skill 9 - View Variables
* Project - Superhero Pages



### Programming Environment

Before you start coding make sure that your development tools are fully
configured.  

* Virtual Environment is active
* Django is Installed in the Virtual Environment
* Visual Studio is Linked to Github
* PythonWebApps repo is forked and cloned
* Visual Studio can open the folder where your code lives


### Development Workflow

During development, you will be writing code in small increments for each feature. Every feature will
be created, tested, fixed, and committed to version control before moving on to the next one.
Working in this way will ensure that your code is always getting better and never broken.

* **Edit** - make a small (1-3 lines) change to your code
* **Test** - run the server and browse to page
* **Commit** - commit changes every hour
* **Repeat** - work in small iterations, don't ignore bugs


Every work session will follow these steps. You will certainly be tempted to
skip some of these, but your life will be easier when you go through each one.

* Pull code
* Make changes
* Test changes
* Push changes
* Deploy
* Test on server


### Setup your development environment

We will perform a few common tasks repeatedly, so make sure that these tasks
are supported by your tools. You must be able to perform each of these tasks
easily, in less than 5 seconds. This means that you will be able to do the action 
without thinking about how.

* **Edit Code** - You should be able to get to any piece of code in 3 clicks or less.
Use the directory tree in Visual Studio Code for instant access.
* **Run and Debug** - Set up the integrated debug tools to run your development 
server. This will allow you to run your code or step through each line to find 
errors quickly.
* **Terminal** - Run the Django Server and file commands using a terminal window.
This can be a quick way to test out your code with different options.
* **Browser** - Make sure you define browser short-cuts for all of your main
tasks. Get to the common places in a single click.
    * View this textbook
    * Test your site locally
    * Test your site on the remote server
    * Configure App Platform at Digital Ocean
    * View Github repo


### Make changes

Doing a task that you know well takes no thought and can be done in minutes.
But learning is completely different and requires roughly ten times the effort.
Learning a trick often takes a day. Applying a trick, once mastered, may only take an 
hour.

Rapid progress is made by working in very small steps. This is
counter-intuitive to many beginners. The act of writing software allows you
to produce results quickly when things are going well but comes to a complete
halt when you need to troubleshoot a problem.

If you write 100 lines of code you may spend hours debugging it and getting it
to run. If you run and test your code every minute you will eliminate the
need to devote hours to debugging a large chunk of code. You will see the error 
happen and fix it within a few seconds.

This is the most important rule of programming!

* Work in small steps 
* One feature at a time
* Test and fix (every minute)
* Commit frequently (every 10-20 minutes)
* If you are spending time debugging you are doing it wrong!


### Testing Web Pages

As we create web pages we will be testing them by using the web browser to
request the pages from the local development web server. To do this start up
the development server with the command in the Terminal window.

    $ python manage.py runserver

Then browse to the web page at "localhost:8000"

If this works, update the server and wait for the successful build. Then browse
to the remote web page at "digital-ocean-server". This should contain the
last changes that you made.        


### How Does Django Work?

This is a quick overview of the Django application structure and how all
the parts work together to produce a web application.

Django Apps support a Model-View-Template architecture. Each part of this
architecture defines a concept that is used to build the application.

* **Model** - Python classes define database structure and operations
* **View** - Python code is executed to create the visible part of the app
* **Template** - An extended HTML file is used to define the presentation
* **Settings** - Application options control how the app behaves at run time

Creating a new app sets up the code with its structure. Then the developer begins
adding data and views. The data is defined by Python classes that are used
to create and modify the SQL database tables. These same classes are then used
to operate on the database.

Views typically involve creating a View class with Python code that is invoked
by a specific URL route, which presents an HTML template with variables added.
Therefore, most views are created by defining:

* **Template** - HTML in the "templates" directory
* **View** - view class in the "views.py" file
* **URL Route** - URLs in the "urls.py" file

