# Chapter 4 - Views

* Skill 10 - View Inheritance
* Skill 11 - Templates
* Skill 12 - Variables
* Project 4 - Superhero Pages



### Expand from the Basics

* Work incrementally
* Development workflow
    * Pull
    * Change/Test loop
    * Commit/Deploy changes
    * Test remotely


### Applications = Views + Data + Tests

Views present content to the user  (Chapter 4)

Django defines all of the view logic as Python object classes. This lets you define a view by
writing very little code. All of the basic behaviors are defined for you, but you can easily 
override any behavior you wish to customize.  

TemplateView shows an HTML template as a view and the only requirement is that you specify which
template to show.  Throughout this textbook, we will explore a variety of the design patterns which make
creating code very efficient. URL routes map the incoming HTTP requests to the Python code for the
view. So creating views involves writing a template, view, and URL code.

Data stores content  (Chapter 5)

Django allows database operations to be written in Python by defining data models, which are Python
classes.  These models are used to modify the database structure and content automatically.
A migration utility is used to update the database tables after changing the models.

Tests guarantee that everything works  (Chapter 8)

Django provides infrastructure for writing and executing automatic tests. Setup Django tests to
check key items within your app and ensure that everything works well throughout the entire
project. Run Django tests regularly (at least once a day). Build tests as you write code rather
than late in the project.  Let your development activities be guided by your tests.


### views.py

The views are Python code that converts a request into a response. The
request may contain data that is used to create the appropriate response.
The view logic is responsible for doing all of the actions required to form
the response. It may need to interact with the database, render templates,
or perform computing.


### urls.py

The web server listens for HTTP requests being made to specific host addresses.
It then matches specific requests to certain URLs. Once an URL pattern is 
matched, the server calls the appropriate view and the HTTP response is
returned to the requester over the internet. The urls.py file contains a list
of URLs and views.


### templates

Django makes heavy use of HTML. Most views will use an HTML file and add
some dynamic data. Often views do nothing more than inject data into a template
and return the resulting HTML with the appropriate HTTP headers attached. The
HTML templates are stored in files that are loaded at run time by specific views.


### Beyond Simple Views

You've now learned the basic elements of a Django application. But there is still a
lot more to learn in order to build large and complex pages. 

One major problem that must be addressed is how to eliminate duplicated code.
When we write HTML code there is no easy way to deal with massive duplication.
Django defines a clean solution for dealing with duplicated code within our 
HTML files.  

Visual inheritance lets us define a page in HTML and extend it into other pages
rather than replicate the contents. It will allow us to define each HTML 
construct once and reuse it in many places.

We also need to understand some details about how the templates are located
and used by our app. Finally, this chapter will cover how to build views
with more complex data in them.

This requires learning several new skills.

* View Inheritance
* Templates
* Complex Variables


### View Inheritance eliminates duplication

We will have many HTML pages in our application that will be very similar to each other. If we
allow ourselves to duplicate the HTML details, we will have a massive amount of duplication
throughout our code. Eventually, the duplicated code will far outweigh the unique code. This
can lead to disaster as the system grows in size and complexity.

Making changes can become all but impossible when logic appears in many places in the code. Changes
will be made in some places but not in others and this will cause many hidden bugs. Fortunately,
Django provides several powerful ways to prevent duplication of code.

The first technique we will explore is called visual inheritance. We define a base page template and
then use it within other pages to include the logic of the base page.  When we extend the base page
we inherit the content.


### HTML Templates

Django supports templates which are HTML files that can be displayed by the
Python view code. The standard HTML language is extended to allow for variables,
conditionals, and looping along with several other constructs.

Templates are loaded as the view code is executed.  A template loader looks for 
the templates which can be in several directories.
The Template search path for the Template Loader must be defined in 
settings.py.


