# Chapter 6 - Data views

- Skill 16 - Crud views
- Skill 17 - Development Database
- Skill 18 - Production Database
- Project - Superhero Records



### Building Model Views

Django provides an easy way to implement a full set of views to work on a
specific data type. In the last chapter, we looked at how all of the operations
on our database records involve the four basic CRUD operations. In this
chapter, we will look at how to create views that support each operation.

When building views for data types, start by defining the data model. Select
which key data attributes the data model needs to implement the desired
business rules. Simplify the design by calculating the attributes that can
be computed, with the goal of only storing the independent variables in the database.


### Data CRUD Views Design Pattern

Now you can build views for the following data model without writing very much code.
Each record type needs to be created, read, updated, and deleted. This means
that we will need to consider five different views for each data model in
our application.  We may not need to implement all of the views, depending on
the functionality of our app.

Implementing a view requires inheriting from the appropriate Django view class
and providing the unique details that are specific to your needs.  At a minimum,
this involves specifying the data model and the HTML template to use.
You can also add other variable content to be passed into the view. We will
begin with the most basic implementation.

* CreateView
* ListView
* DetailView
* UpdateView
* DeleteView


### Database Migration

In the last chapter, we created the initial database tables by using the migrate
command in Django. This applied the code within the migrations scripts to
the actual SQL database.

This same command will be used to make changes to the database to match the 
new data models within our code. Each time we make changes to the data models
we must make new migrations scripts. This compares the current tables with the
current data models and builds the Python scripts to change the database.
After creating new migrations they must be applied.

    $ python manage.py makemigrations

    $ python manage.py migrate

This makes any necessary changes to the database tables. Because there may be
data already present in the database the migration scripts are needed to make
the appropriate changes.  The migration tools make this 
process robust and reliable.


### Make Migrations

When you run the **makemigrations** command script code is created that is
used to update the tables in the database. These scripts modify both the 
content and structure of the tables. These migration scripts are now a part
of your project history and should be placed under version control.

For our blog demo, we have the following files.

    blog/migrations
    ├── 0001_initial.py
    ├── 0002_blog_author_article.py


Later these files will be moved to a different server and applied to the new
database with the **migrate** command.  This is how the multiple databases are
kept in sync as the code is being modified on different machines by different
authors. The migration scripts are written so that they can be merged together
to modify the tables in a consistent way.


### Database Deployment

During development, you will probably start with the development database. This
lets you create and modify the database content on your development machine.
The entire state of the data can easily be deployed exactly like you would deploy
the code to your running server. Because the database is simply a file it
just needs to be within your git repo.

Later when you switch to a managed database you will need to manage your database
deployment in a very different way. Now your database will survive while the 
application server is rebuilt during each deployment. You now have two servers
that are managed by your service provider and each one has a different life span.

* Application Server - Runs all the Django code (rebuilt from git repo)
* Static Web Server - Holds all the static assets (rebuilt from git repo)
* Application Server - Holds the application data (lives forever)


### Production Database

Before release you should set up a commercial database, such as Postgres, to 
manage your database. All service providers have a mechanism to manage
databases for your application. These typically cost extra money and require
a certain amount of setup.

In this chapter, we will look at the details of how to work with a production
database and bring data into tables to populate the database content.
We will also look at the details of creating a database at Digital Ocean.
All service providers will provide similar methods but the details will vary.
This is a recipe that will get you fully up and running at Digital Ocean and will 
be somewhat useful if you are using another provider.


### Data Fixtures

Django also provides a mechanism to export objects from the database. These
objects can be a subset of all the records in the database. The **dumpdata**
command is used to collect database content as a JSON file.

The Django command, **loaddata** is used to bring data saved as JSON into
the active database. This is very helpful for exporting and importing data
to and from the running application.

Keep in mind that, as the app is running, the data records are constantly changing.
This means that the JSON that you save will contain conflicting objects if you
allow the database to be modified.  For the import to be successful there must
not be any conflicting IDs on the data objects.

Data fixtures are quite useful for setting up specific test scenarios. Each
time you want to run a test you can force a certain state in the database and
then execute the test using the known state.


### Save Data From Database

Export the data on the terminal output to verify that you can extract the objects.  Then you
can save the data into a file and perhaps print it out with line endings and indents.  Here are
the commands to use.

    $ python manage.py dumpdata

    $ python manage.py dumpdata > data.json

    $ python manage.py dumpdata --indent 4 > data.json


### Load Data Into Database

Once you have a JSON file that contains the database records, they can be read into the database.
Note that you may have conflicts with the primary keys if the database has changed since the data
was exported.  This command serves as an import for the data records.

    $ python manage.py loaddata data.json

    Installed 46 object(s) from 1 fixture(s)


