# Chapter 10 - Images

- Skill 28 - Photo upload
- Skill 29 - Media hosting on the server
- Skill 30 - Image carousel
- Project - Superhero Photos



### Working With Images

Most modern web apps contain images.
This chapter will teach you how to build an app that lets users securely upload
images.

When an image is uploaded it must be stored on the server so that
it can be added to the user content. It is also likely that
you will want to use some third-party code to present the images in a compelling
way.

Django comes equipped with logic to upload images to a server with just a few
lines of code. We will see how to enable this capability by defining a data
model that contains an ImageField along with a function to get the location
of the saved file.

Next, we will look at how these files are stored on the remote server and how
they are served as needed from the server. This involves creating a special 
kind of static server that handles images.
We will also look at the security implications of uploading images to your server.

The last part of this chapter will explore how to incorporate images into
sophisticated pages using components from Bootstrap. You will learn how to
use a Bootstrap Carousel to display your images on a page with flare.


Design Patterns

* Data Views
* Photo upload
* Media hosting
* Image carousel


### Photo Album Demo Code

We will step through the code you will need to create a running
application that will let users define their own photo albums. This app 
will demonstrate all the critical parts of the code that are necessary
within your application to support image uploads.

The application has been intentionally simplified to focus your attention
on the critical details. In particular, the security model for a robust
application would need to guarantee that users be limited to accessing their
own data. But if you have been following the logic so far, you should 
be able to restrict the access to the data models and views to match the
business rules.


### Superhero Images Project

To complete this chapter you will use the demo code to build an application
that lets users create albums for each of the superheroes in your
app. A registered user will be able to add heroes to the database and 
then define a photo album for the hero.

All users, including "Anonymous Users", will be able to view the data records
and albums. Only the authors of the data records will be able to create 
or modify the photo albums.

