# Chapter 13 - Software Release 

- Skill 37 - Code Generator
- Skill 38 - Continuous Integration
- Skill 39 - DevOps
- Project 13 - Superhero Info Center


### Overview

Modern software is typically deployed on servers in the cloud. This requires careful planning and
execution of the deployment. This focus on operations is quite unique from the development mindset.
As the software nears its first release, there is a focus shift toward managing the servers and how
to deploy code without disrupting the current users. After the first release, all subsequent
releases must ensure that quality is preserved.

In the early days of the internet, Development and Operations were two separate parts of the
organization and managed somewhat independently. Modern organizations recognize the need to combine
these distinct organizational functions into a single integrated approach.

DevOps is the strategic merger of the Development team with the Operations team. This combined focus
ensures that all the key elements of each process are coupled so that delays can be eliminated and
communication can be enhanced.


Design Patterns

There are several design patterns that will help us to be more efficient in DevOps.

* Code Generator
* Continuous Integration
* DevOps Practices


### Combine Development and Operations

Development has a lifecycle that moves from Requirements to Coding to Testing before
the software is released. Operations moves the code from Deployment to Scaling to
Monitoring after the release. The key idea of DevOps is to streamline the integration
of these two lifecycles by adding key connections between them.

Special attention is given to the way that the software development team helps with
the initial deployment. This falls in two main areas. 

* The development occurs on computers that are as similar as possible to the Production environment.
  This eliminates the mystery bugs that surface only in production.  

* Everything is kept under version control and highly automated. This includes the machine
  configuration and all of the testing. In the past, these tasks were done by hand and were highly
  unreliable. DevOps requires us to automate the entire process so that code can be fully deployed
  from a single command. This ensures that it is done the same way every time.


### Just Enough Process

Building a large project requires a lot of planning and a solid DevOps process.
This process should be built on proven techniques and tools that support the
required tasks.

Advanced tools are available for every unique aspect of a software project.
On small projects, engineers are likely to neglect DevOps and concentrate only
on the Development part of the overall process. This is a mistake that is 
costly in productivity and quality.

While a small project does not require the powerful tools and more formal 
process of a large one, it can still benefit from the DevOps mindset. The
goal is to figure out the appropriate level of process for your project.
The kind of process and tools that you use should match the size of your project.
If your project is expected to cost more than 1,000 hours of engineering then
you should invest in learning the top-shelf tools.

But what about the small project? I recommend that you still think through the
concepts of DevOps. Apply the ideas in this chapter and reap the benefits in productivity
and quality.


### Software Reuse

Use the lowest cost approach to create the application that is needed to 
meet the business goals. Try to avoid writing software by finding and using
software that already exists. Cultivate the mindset of software reuse in
all of its forms.

Consider these layers of reuse.

* Buy a product that exists
* Buy a component that solves certain core problems
* Use a general-purpose framework 
* Build your own framework by refactoring your code
* Recycle pieces of apps you wrote
* Write custom software from scratch


### Refactoring

All designs have limitations. When code is first designed there is often little known about the 
actual problem that must be solved. Designers make choices that seem right at the time but inevitably
lead to constraints in the features and structure of the system. Over time the design limits the new 
features that can be added.

As code is modified it undergoes decay. Each time the code is edited, its quality is decreased. As the
business needs change, the existing design becomes increasingly inappropriate. Large systems often decay
to a point where they need to be completely replaced to meet the business goals.

Many companies resist changing the design once it is in place. This locks them into trade-offs that 
may be entirely inappropriate. The world is constantly changing and it is critical to have a flexible
design that can adapt to the new realities.

Refactoring allows a design to change after the code has been written. Code decays; refactoring saves.

The design of your code should be as simple as possible. Junior engineers often overbuild everything because 
they try to anticipate everything that might be needed. Do not anticipate - wait for the need to present itself. 
Refactoring lets you expand a simple design to the next level rather than build it ahead of time.
Engineer the system on demand, not prematurely.


### Application Frameworks

Most of the problems that need to be solved are common problems. As these problems surface, code
is created to meet the needs. It is important to standardize the best solution found and apply
this solution every time the problem recurs. Great engineers solve problems once and reuse
the solution as needed.

Each time the standard solution is applied, improvements are made to generalize it or add new
functionality. Over time, a truly excellent solution can be developed that lets you solve the
problem with very little difficulty.

This is the idea behind an application framework. Django was developed by writing numerous 
applications and then refactoring all of the common parts into a library of reusable code. Over
the years, Django has been improved by the contributions of thousands of applications. The
best thinking of a large army of application developers is reflected in the Django framework.

This is the most powerful type of software reuse imaginable. In a few minutes, you can build a
robust application that benefits from many years of engineering.  Since its first release in 2005,
Django has attracted top developers that have volunteered their time to make it what it is today.


### Rules to Live By

We hold these truths to be self-evident. Good DevOps requires that
you do not violate these basic practices.

* Let business needs drive development
* Automate all testing
* Develop with production configuration
* Communicate frequently
* Everything is under version control
* Build the world from scratch
* Fix problems immediately

