# Investor Pitch

Hello investors,

My name is Josiah Seaman and I am an entrepreneurial technologist excited to share with you the
roadmap for my latest tech creation. My Company Creative Contours specializes in creating technology for AI-generated artwork attribution.


At the heart of this technology lies our commitment to providing significant advancements in the
field of Artificial Intelligence (AI). Currently AI systems have no good way to attribute the value
of artwork generated by AI algorithms back to the orginal artwork sources that the system was
trained on.

Stable Diffusion harnesses the power of AI to generate stunning artwork that pushes creative
boundaries, never before seen in the industry. Our proprietary algorithm hooks into Stable
Diffusion and can calculate the value of the contributions of the artwork created back to the
creator of the original artwork.

Our roadmap consists of three development phases for our technology, each building on top of the
other to create an efficient attribution system. The first phase targets simple attribution based
on text prompts, and we plan to have the prototype ready for product testing by September 2023.

We will then move on to the second phase, where we will focus on pixel attribution for component
regions. Here, we aim to offer something that will revolutionize the way AI artwork is created and
credited. By January 2024, we aim to have a working prototype ready to take to market.

Finally, during the summer of 2024, we will be ready to launch the third development phase, where
spatial dimensional analysis will be used as a highly effective monetary attribution system.

Our technology has been carefully optimized to offer the best possible results in the fastest
possible time. This technology will be game-changing for the business processes involved
with generative artwork.

We are confident that this technology will disrupt the industry as we know it. Our team of experts
is eager to share with you more details on how you can take advantage of this exciting
opportunity. 

So let's talk - are you ready to invest in the future of AI-generated artwork attribution?

Thank you for your time.