# Lesson 21 - Milestone 6 - Requirements

## Project Manager Role

As a project manager, your role is multifaceted and involves a range of
responsibilities to ensure a successful product release. From gaining approval from the customer,
to coordinating with team members and stakeholders, and updating operations plans, your role is
vital in keeping the project on track and delivering a successful outcome.


### Gain approval for product release from customer

When working as a project manager, one of your key responsibilities is to gain approval for the
release of the product from the customer. This involves effective communication and collaboration
with both the development team and the customer.

To gain approval, you need to ensure that all the necessary criteria and requirements set by the
customer are met. This includes thorough testing and quality assurance to ensure that the product
functions as expected. You need to coordinate with the development team to resolve any issues or
bugs that may arise during the testing phase.


### Coordinate with team members to resolve issues

To successfully deliver a product, it is crucial to coordinate with team members to resolve any
issues that arise during the development process. This requires effective communication and
problem-solving skills.

For example, when a critical issue is discovered, you need to quickly gather the relevant team
members to investigate and find a solution. You may need to facilitate discussions and
brainstorming sessions to explore different approaches and identify the best solution.


### Communicate issue resolutions to stakeholders

Once issues are resolved, it is important to communicate the resolutions to the stakeholders. This
includes not only the customer but also other relevant parties such as senior management and other
departments within the organization.

Clear and concise communication is essential to ensure that all stakeholders are informed about the
progress and any changes that have been made. This helps to align expectations and ensure that
everyone is on the same page.


### Update operations plans

Throughout the project, it is important to update the operations plans to reflect any changes or
updates that have been made. This includes documenting any issue resolutions, updating the project
schedule, and adjusting resource allocation if necessary.

By keeping the operations plans up to date, you can ensure that the project remains on track and all
team members are aware of the latest developments. This helps to minimize confusion and maximize
efficiency.

