# Lesson 23 - Milestone 6 - Code

## Programmer Role

The job of programmer involves more than writing code. It requires continuous learning,
effective collaboration, seeking feedback, and providing progress updates. Being aware of the
challenges and taking proactive steps to overcome them will help you excel in your role and make a
significant impact on your team.

During the lead up to a software release the programmers are working to ensure that the product
functionality is correct and that the product is well tested.  They also must review the code and
make sure that it is easy to maintain.


### Review Code

Being a programmer requires a strong understanding of code and the ability to tackle various
challenges. As a skilled programmer, it is crucial that you review code-related issues and
challenges regularly. By doing so, you can spot any potential bugs or areas for improvement before
they become major problems. 

The programmer should conduct code reviews to make sure that both the functionality and structure
of the code is in a good state.  Defects that are released into the field are very costly compared
to before the release.


### Collaborate with project manager on issue resolution


Collaboration is key in any project, and as a programmer, you should work closely with the project
manager on issue resolution. By communicating effectively, you can ensure that progress is made
smoothly and any roadblocks are promptly addressed. 


### Seek feedback from team members on code improvements

No one knows everything, and it's always beneficial to seek feedback from team members on code
improvements. By doing so, you not only receive valuable insights but also foster a culture of
continuous learning and improvement within the team. Remember, feedback is a gift!


### Provide progress updates on code development

Communication is vital in any team, and providing progress updates on code development is essential.
By keeping everyone informed about your progress, you allow for transparency and ensure that
everyone is on the same page. This enables the team to plan accordingly and make informed decisions
based on the latest development status.

As a programmer, consider yourself not just an individual contributor, but also a mentor and a
guide. Share your knowledge and expertise with others. Help junior team members navigate the
challenges they may face and provide guidance on best practices. By empowering others, you not only
contribute to the growth of your team but also leave a lasting impact on the industry.

