# Life at 20 Something

Stacie and I graduated from college at the age of 21, both deeply rooted in our Christian faith. As young adults, we
aspired to live lives dedicated to ministry, yet the traditional path of becoming full-time pastors was not an option
for us. Stacie faced disqualification due to her womanhood, and I held a passion for technology, which was not embraced
by churches at that time.

Upon graduation, I began working at HP as a design engineer in the R&D lab. The role was a perfect match for my skills
and training, but I soon realized that it lacked the sense of purpose I craved. Despite my successful career, I felt an
insatiable desire to live a life of ministry. This yearning led to a constant struggle to balance the demands of family,
career, and church life.

Stacie and I were determined to align our lives with our values, which led us to adopt a frugal lifestyle. We created a
family budget that allowed us to serve a greater purpose while living on about 20% less than my colleagues. Although
this often resulted in feelings of resentment due to our restricted lifestyle, we believed it was a matter of integrity.

Our commitment to living on a reduced budget persisted throughout our marriage. We always set a family budget
significantly smaller than our income. Thankfully, my high-paying job during those early years enabled us to maintain a
comfortable life despite our financial constraints. We also made a commitment to avoid debt, except for our mortgage.
Whenever we incurred debt, we aimed to pay it off within a year.

The first decade of our marriage, especially with small children, was challenging as we constantly juggled our budget to
meet our commitments. Our budget breakdown looked something like this:

- Taxes: 30%
- Giving: 10%
- Saving: 10%
- Housing: 30%
- Living expenses: 20%

Maintaining such a disciplined lifestyle required significant restraint. For instance, we avoided flying and opted for
driving trips instead, as air travel was beyond our budget. It was difficult not to feel envious when my colleagues
frequently took Caribbean cruises and European vacations.

Despite the hardships, the sacrifices we made for our church and our children ultimately proved worthwhile. It
took decades to see the fruits of our labor, but eventually, they became evident.

Our journey was not without its trials. Every setback and disaster tested our resolve, yet we remained steadfast in our
commitments. This disciplined approach to life taught us valuable lessons about integrity, sacrifice, and the true
meaning of purpose.

Reflecting on those years, I realize that our choices shaped not only our lives but also the lives of those around us.
We found fulfillment in our ministry work and derived a profound sense of purpose from it. While my career at HP
provided financial stability, it was our involvement with the church that gave us a deeper sense of doing something
worthwhile.

Our twenties were marked by a delicate balancing act between career aspirations, financial discipline, and a desire to
serve. The journey was often arduous, filled with moments of envy and doubt, but our unwavering faith and commitment to
our values saw us through. Today, we look back with gratitude for the path we chose, knowing that the sacrifices we made
were essential in living a life aligned with our deepest convictions.

