# Life at 30 Something

By the age of 30, I felt I had achieved my dream life. Married for 12 years and with three kids in elementary school, I
was working at the forefront of technology, becoming an expert in imaging software. My work in OCR software, which would
later be incorporate in tools like ChatGPT and Google Translate, was particularly rewarding. The Tesseract OCR project is still
being used today, and I am proud of the impact it has had on the world.

With annual raises of 10% and stock options, the financial pressures of our first decade together began to ease. We
ascended into the upper-middle class, edging towards the top 10% of Americans. However, as financial stress decreased,
the demands on our time escalated, becoming the primary resource we needed to manage.

Our schedules were packed, often leaving us with only one or two free evenings each week. Balancing the insatiable
demands of our children and our church commitments was a constant challenge. Both Stacie and I were deeply involved in
our church, and during this period, we developed a passion for missions. We supported friends engaged in mission work
worldwide, contributing financially and forming lasting relationships.

The 1990s were also marked by societal culture wars, which would become even more toxic in the following decades. We
struggled to balance our desire to create a better world with allowing individuals to exercise personal freedom and
understanding. A primary challenge during this time was deciding how to educate our children. We were torn between
private Christian schools and public schools, wanting them to learn strong values without harmful indoctrination.
Consequently, tuition for the Christian school was a significant budget item, causing ongoing stress between Stacie and
me.

By my thirties, I had become a technical leader and key contributor at HP. The pinnacle of my career came in 1999 when I
led a team developing a comprehensive suite of applications for digital cameras. This included image editing,
organization, printing, and sharing photos via the web and email. This role was the culmination of my professional
aspirations and marked the high point of my career at HP.

By the age of 35, all our kids were in school, and Stacie was contemplating her career path. Despite her exceptional
skills, she struggled to find a job that offered decent pay. She worked several positions for which she was
overqualified and underrewarded, leading to a very frustrating period for her. Eventually, she decided to pursue
nursing and returned to college for three years.

These years were marked by both professional triumphs and personal challenges. While I achieved career success and
financial stability, balancing our time commitments remained a significant struggle. Stacie's journey to find fulfilling
work highlighted the complexities of managing dual careers and family life.

Reflecting on this period, it's clear that the decisions we made — whether about our children’s education, our financial
contributions to missions, or managing our time — were guided by our commitment to our values. The lessons
learned during our thirties about balance, sacrifice, and perseverance have continued to shape our lives and
relationships.

