# My Unfolding Career

My professional career path has been a diverse and fulfilling journey, encompassing various roles
that have allowed me to develop new skills and pursue my passions. 

Each role has taught me valuable lessons that have shaped my approach to work and life, and I look
forward to continuing to explore new opportunities in the future.

Below is a brief overview of the different career paths I have taken:

## Software Engineer:

My journey began as a software engineer, where I developed skills in coding, programming, and
problem-solving. I worked for many years at HP in R&D designing and building imaging products. I
worked on various projects that ranged from simple applications to complex systems. I enjoyed this
role as it allowed me to use my analytical skills and logical thinking to create innovative
solutions.

## Business Owner:

After gaining several years of experience as a software engineer, I decided to pursue my
entrepreneurial aspirations and started my own business. As the founder of Shrinking World, I did
engineering work and training.  During this time I developed skills in leadership, communication,
and strategic planning. I enjoyed this role as it gave me the freedom to pursue my own vision and
create a company culture that aligned with my values.

## Writer:

Throughout my professional journey, I developed a passion for writing, and I decided to pursue this
interest by becoming a writer. I wrote a book on software engineering skills and another on web
application development and I write daily blog posts on a variety of topics, including web apps,
technology, society, and personal growth.  I have recently been writing about how AI has changed
everything. I enjoy this role as it allowed me to express my creativity and share my ideas with a
wider audience.

## College Professor:

With years of experience under my belt, I decided to pursue teaching as a career path. I became a
college professor, where I taught computer science and related subjects to undergraduate students.
I developed four college courses and wrote a textbook on "Building Python Web Apps".
As a professor, I developed skills in public speaking, curriculum development, and mentorship. I
enjoyed this role as it gave me the opportunity to share my knowledge and inspire the next
generation of software engineers.

## Content Creator:

As the digital landscape evolved, I decided to leverage my experience and knowledge to become a
content creator. I create online courses, YouTube videos, and social media content that focuses on
training others.  My favorite topics are software engineering, writing, teaching, and personal
development. As a content creator, I developed skills in publishing tools for blogs and books,
video, editing, and social media management. I enjoyed this role as it allowed me to connect with a
global audience and share my expertise with people from different backgrounds.

