# Grand Mesa Perspective

We left Moab to go to Arches National Park.  It took about an hour to get the 10
miles from Moab to the entry way of the park.  At the park there were around 100
cars lined up waiting to enter the park. The cars were leaving the park at about
two every minute.  The trip through the park was done as a slow moving chain of
cars.  We decided to skip this activity and made a U-turn.  We are so glad we
did.

After going through Grand Junction we turned off on highway 68, the Grand Mesa
Scenic Byway, we snaked through a dramatic canyon and sent us heading toward a
large flat mountain range.  I could not tell where the road would take us and
had not looked at the map first.  We would either skirt the mountain or climb
over it.

We started climbing.  A small amount of fresh snow was seen along the roadside
and the mountain was shrouded in clouds.  We could not really tell where we were
going, but the road kept taking us higher.  Finally it seemed that we were
nearing the summit.  We had climbed to about 9000 feet from our starting point
of about 6000.

We pulled off the road so we could record a video of the snow that was about a
foot deep in most places. The mountains were still blocked by the low clouds but
the valley below us was quite dramatic.  We pushed on believing that our descent
would begin soon.

We were still going up and soon we lost phone reception.  At that point we
started to get a little nervous. We probably should have studied the maps better
while we could.  The snow kept getting heavier with each mile we adding. 
Occasionally we encountered another car which made us feel a little better. 
There were people that had come up here for some cross country skying. 

Finally we passed a snow barrier that is used to close the road to travelers
when the snow is too heavy. This told us that we were heading higher, not lower.
 Sure enough.  The snow got deeper soon. There was a steady blanket over the
landscape perhaps 5 feet deep.  But the road was still clear, except for patches
of ice and snow.

The road revealed a lot about the severity of the weather in this place.  In
spot we could see the existence of the old snow and ice with the layering of the
newly fallen snow.  We did start to question this route when we passed a sign
that said, "Do not stop or stand, Avalanche Danger".   We glanced suspiciously
at the steep snow-covered slope  towering above the road.  We noted that the
road had been wipe out periodically in spots and was newly repaired.

Soon we began a descent.  It looked like we were going to make it. The snow
cover began to lessen and a fantastic view opened up show the valley filled with
farms far below us.  Soon the farmhouses grew frequent and we found ourselves in
Cedaredge.  We had just experienced a wonderful adventure and seen some
astounding beauty along the way.

Sometimes the best adventures are the ones that you don't plan. The day started
with a plan to drive through Arches National Park but after we rejected that
idea, we felt disappointed.  So we treated ourselves to the scenic route to get
to Montrose.  Little did we know that the backup plan would be far better than
the original one.  Sometimes you don't know what you will find until you do.

This is a good reminder to me that I should remain open and look for beauty and
joy where ever I find it.

