# The Hardest Year


## The Breaking Point

As I celebrate my 65th birthday, I find myself naturally reflecting on the events of the past year—a year marked by
profound change, unimaginable loss, and a forced reckoning with the trajectory of my life. September 1, 2023, feels like
a lifetime ago, and yet I can recall that time with painful clarity. On that day, I had no inkling that my life was
about to implode in ways I could never have anticipated. 

Stacie, my beloved wife, and I were buried under a mountain of responsibilities, working an insane number of hours on
projects we believed to be critically important. We had convinced ourselves that our efforts would pay off, that we were
building something of lasting value. Yet, deep down, we both knew the truth: our lives were unsustainable.

In light of this, we made a strategic important decision to retire. The plan was simple yet profound: we would stop
chasing fame and fortune, stepping away from the relentless pursuit of contribution that had consumed us for so long.
Instead, we would devote our energy and time to what truly mattered—our family, our marriage, and the quality of our
lives. We understood that life is uncertain, but we could not have predicted just how true that would be.

We still had commitments to honor, projects that were in progress and needed to be completed by the end of the year.
Stacie was building a coaching and publishing business and focused on helping people publish content. I was writing
textbooks, building an online school and teaching college. Together we were building an enterprise-level software
application for a university called Prometa.

But there was a light at the end of the tunnel. We had plans for the future that excited us. We booked an ocean cruise
for a month and even started contemplating an extended vacation in a condo in Nafplio, Greece—a place that had captured
our imaginations. The idea of traveling, relaxing, and simply enjoying each other’s company was intoxicating. We were on
the brink of a new chapter, one that promised peace and fulfillment after years of hard work.


## The Loss

However, life had other plans. Over the next three months, Stacie fell ill. What started as a vague discomfort quickly
spiraled into a devastating diagnosis: cancer. Despite our best efforts and the tireless work of her medical team, her
health deteriorated rapidly. Stacie passed away, leaving me shattered in a world that suddenly felt unbearably empty. In
losing her, I lost not just my wife but my best friend, my teacher, my confidant, and my lover. 

Stacie was, without a doubt, the best person I have ever known. To have been married to her for so many years was the
greatest privilege of my life. Without her, everything that I had valued seemed to vanish, and I was left adrift,
struggling to find meaning in a life that felt alien to me.

January 1, 2024, marked the first day of what I can only describe as my new life. It was a life I had not chosen, but
one that I was now forced to navigate. I began the year with nothing but a profound sense of loss and the daunting task
of rebuilding from the ground up. I wish I could tell you that this journey has been a steady climb toward health and
wholeness, but that would be far from the truth. There have been moments when I have felt almost normal, when the weight
of grief has lifted just enough for me to glimpse a future. But there have also been times when taking the next step
forward has felt like an insurmountable challenge.

The first quarter of the year was a period of intense reckoning. I had to come to terms with the full extent of what I
had lost: my lover and friend, my career, my identity, my motivation, my hope for the future, my financial security, my
physical safety, my emotional health, and my social life. Each loss felt like a blow, and I was reeling from the
cumulative impact. I realized, too, that Stacie had been the linchpin of my social world. She had been the one to
organize our social calendar, to maintain our connections with friends and family. Without her, I was in real danger of
becoming profoundly isolated— a prospect that terrified me.


## Rebuilding

In response, I threw myself into the task of building a support network. I knew I couldn’t do this alone. Over the next
six months, I made a concerted effort to meet with people, averaging three deep conversations a day. By the end of this
period, I had engaged in some 700 meaningful interactions. These conversations were a lifeline, providing me with the
support I needed to begin the slow process of healing and recovery. By April, I started to regain my footing, finding a
semblance of stability in the midst of chaos.

In May, I honored Stacie’s memory by taking the cruise we had planned together. Two of my children joined me for part of
the trip, and their presence was a comfort during what was an emotionally complex journey. The cruise was
bittersweet—full of moments where I could almost feel Stacie beside me, only to be jolted back to reality by her
absence.

July brought another emotional milestone: a return to Flagstaff, Arizona, the town where Stacie and I had grown up,
fallen in love, and started our family. This trip was perhaps the hardest of all. Every corner of that town held
memories of our life together—memories that felt like ghosts haunting our favorite spots. Yet, I knew I needed to
confront this new dimension of loss if I was ever to move forward. The experience was grueling, but it was also
necessary, a step I had to take to continue my journey of healing.

As I navigated these difficult experiences, I couldn’t help but notice the inevitable markers of aging creeping into my
life. In the last three months, I have officially become “old”—a milestone marked by the arrival of social security,
Medicare, AARP mailings, and the occasional daydream about senior discounts. It’s a strange feeling, surviving the storm
only to find myself in this new phase of life, one that I never imagined facing without Stacie by my side.


## The Future

Now, as I stand on the other side of this tumultuous year, I find myself in a stable, if uncertain, state. I have
survived, but survival is not the same as living. I am still grappling with the challenge of building a new life that
feels meaningful, and I confess that at this moment, it is hard to even imagine what I want that life to be. What is
painfully clear, however, is that there is no way to recapture what we once had. My old life is gone forever, along with
the hopes, dreams, and expectations that accompanied it. The future is a blank slate, one that I hope will be filled
with goodness, but which remains daunting in its uncertainty.

In the coming months, I am eager to connect with new friends whose conversations extend beyond my recovery. I am no
longer just seeking solace—I am seeking joy. I am really looking to find people to have fun with, as the past year has
been almost completely devoid of joyful moments. Fun has become a significant need in my life, a need that I am
determined to fulfill. 

This journey of healing is far from over, but I am hopeful that by embracing the possibility of new friendships and new
experiences, I can begin to build a life that, while different, is still full of meaning and, most importantly, joy. I
am hopeful that Chapter 65 in my story will be far brighter than Chapter 64.

