# A Journey of Healing

It's been six months since Stacie's passing, and each day, at least 92 things remind me of her: a song, a household
item, photos, clothing, and particular aromas. Instead of shunning these memories, I choose to embrace them. I reflect
on what we had, not what was lost.

I recently returned from a trip that Stacie had planned before she got sick. In September, we had decided that we would
both retire after an extremely demanding year. But we simply ran out of time.  We have always loved to travel, and we
had planned to go on a month-long cruise across the Atlantic to Scandinavia. After Stacie passed, I debated whether
to go on the trip alone.  I tried to get numerous friends to join me, but none could. I was left with a choice: go alone
or cancel the trip. 

I was very anxious about going on the trip without her. We had always traveled together; it was a significant part of
our lives. The thought of venturing out alone was daunting, but it turned out to be a wonderful experience. 

Stacie and I had always traveled together, sharing our experiences with one another. Now, I had to learn how to make
friends as I traveled or spend my time alone. She was our travel planner and wonderful travel companion. My challenge
was how to find ways to not be alone while traveling solo.  I decided that each mealtime would be an opportunity to meet
new people. I rarely ate alone, and this proved to be one of the wisest decisions I made. 

The Azores marked the first time that I had traveled abroad without her.  The days at sea provided me with lots of
opportunities to meet new people. The days in port were spent with my new friends.  I was seldom alone.  I was always
surrounded by people who were kind and generous.  I

Two of my kids joined me for part of the trip, making it a special time for all of us. By the time I reached Amsterdam,
I had made friends with over 20 people, many of whom I wish to remain in contact with. When Josiah and Rachel joined me,
I was able to introduce them to many of the friends I had made during the Atlantic crossing.

We toured all of Scandinavia by ship. None of us had ever been to Scandinavia before, so this was a unique opportunity
to see new places and have new experiences together. In a tangible way, we felt Stacie's presence with us. Of course,
there were moments of intense sorrow and mourning, but many more were joyful and fulfilling.

It's been six months, and I am now thriving again. My life has been transformed in ways I never thought possible. I miss
Stacie profoundly, but I know that I can thrive without her. She taught me the skills that allow me to build my new
life. Going on a month-long cruise solo was an intense act of courage; it was part of my recovery. I am so grateful for
my kids who encouraged me to do it, and I'm so glad that I did.

I have no idea what the future holds, but I believe that it will be good. As I think back over the last few months, I am
astounded at how much I have progressed. There is still a long way to go, but I am clearly on the path to living a whole
and fulfilling life.

