# You Can't Go Home

## Longing for Home

They say you can't go home, and while this is partly true, my experience has shown it is not entirely the case. The
search for home often stems from a desire to recapture those moments of joy, peace, and hope we once had and to find
that place of safety and security and belonging. It is true that these moments cannot be perfectly replicated. As life
progresses, circumstances change, making it nearly impossible to recreate those past times of prosperity.

Part of being human is grappling with the reality that we can never truly return to a specific moment in time. Life is a
series of seasons, each bringing its own experiences. There are seasons of difficulty and seasons of tranquility and
peace—the moments we long to return to when we think of going home.

Recently, I've faced significant life changes, stirring a desire to turn back the clock to more peaceful and joyful
times. My wife's recent death has led me to reconsider what it means to live a deep and meaningful life. Her loss has
prompted me to reassess my beliefs, values, time, and even my basic identity.


## Loss of Certainty

In my 20s, I was certain about many aspects of life—how to live positively, succeed at work, raise children, and be a
good person or Christian. Now, in my 60s, these certainties have become rather murky. I find myself longing for the
clarity and certainty of youth.

Many sources offer false certainty, proposing doctrines and beliefs that claim to eliminate uncertainty. However, I find
that such claims often lack integrity. Life's mysteries are something to marvel at. There are truths I know but can't
fully explain, beliefs that are often contradictory and paradoxical.

At this stage of life, I've learned to appreciate the mystery, paradox, and irony, celebrating the idea that no one can
fully understand how the world works. We get glimpses and fleeting moments of clarity, but we often end up in a stance
of acceptance rather than certainty. We accept certain truths as factual, even without understanding all the details.
Life, indeed, is a mystery.

## Going Home

Returning to the idea of going home—is it possible to rediscover those earlier times of peace, joy, and hope? I believe
it is, and this is the essence of going home. I recently returned to Flagstaff, Arizona, where I grew up, met my wife,
fell in love, and became a Christian. This is where my worldview was shaped.

Visiting the places where these events occurred brought back a flood of memories. I remembered how it was but also
recognized that I could never truly return to that time and place. Although it had only been a year since my last visit
to Flagstaff, this time I walked the paths alone, acutely aware that my previous life was beyond reach.

There is a deep longing in every human heart—a sense of what makes life good, brings well-being, and peace. These things
are enduring. If we define home by what brings peace into our lives, we can indeed go home. It begins by understanding
the nature of home, hope, joy, and what we value most. Often, what we love is within our reach. We can go home, indeed.

## Quest for Home

Finding my way back home should have been simple. Yet, after Stacie's passing, a deep yearning pulled me towards rediscovering what "home" truly meant. I longed for normalcy, to reconnect with my roots, to reminisce about the places and friendships of yesteryears that seemed lost in time. The search for this elusive concept became a journey that spanned months, taking me across familiar and distant lands alike.

I began close to my current residence, within the embrace of my family and community. From there, I journeyed backward through time, rekindling connections with faces unseen for decades—ten, twenty, thirty, even forty years. Each step took me further afield, revisiting the locales that shaped my upbringing and early adulthood.

I often wandered around Greeley, Colorado where we raised our children, and thought of Boise, Idaho, where my career in technology began and our family house remains. Yet, it was Flagstaff, Arizona, where Stacie and I first met, fell in love, faced trials, and eventually wed, that held a profound significance. It was here that our shared journey truly began, where the essence of "home" was deeply rooted.

But amidst this odyssey, I discovered that "home" isn't merely a geographical place. It transcends physicality; it embodies an ideal, an experience, a sanctuary of love and belonging. It resides in the tranquility of knowing things will be alright, in the optimism that life's path will unfold as it should, and in the joy of embracing each moment with gratitude. Above all, it dwells in the boundless love of those who surround us.

In Flagstaff, I found a piece of home, or rather the peace of home. Yet, I realized that home isn't confined to a single location—it manifests wherever love and cherished memories thrive. And so, in the end, I found home not just in Flagstaff, but in the heartwarming embrace of every time and place my journey led me.


