# What is Legacy?

Some people have influence that extends far beyond their lifetime.  Our everyday
life can be affected by people that we've never actually met.  It is a paradox that some people can
have a dramatic impact on us without us ever knowing.  

The most powerful example in my life is how Eric Curtis influenced me even though I never once met
him.  My life would be substantially different were it not for him.


## Early Life

Eric was born in the mid-thirties during the dust bowl.  This was an extremely difficult time for
everyone.  His father was an abusive alcoholic and his mother soon sought a divorce when she
recognized the threat to her son.  Decades later she would describe herself as a "brass widow",
indicating the trauma that she felt for doing such an unthinkable act at the time.

She remarried a man who proved to be a loving father to Eric.  He grew up on the mean streets of
Tolleson, Arizona, a small rural town with a predominately Hispanic population.  He was a poor
student and struggled throughout his schooling.


## Army years

After high school, he enlisted in the army and became a paratrooper in Korean War.  Undoubtedly, he
saw many of his friends die on the battlefield, but he never spoke about it.   This triggered a 
search for answers about life and death.

He met with a chaplain in the army and converted to Catholicism. This began a journey of faith that
would continue for the rest of his life.  After surviving the war he returned home and began school.
The government had wisely set up the GI bill that allowed veterans to pay for their schooling.  This
transformed our society for an entire generation but is now sadly lost.


## Educator

Eric was now highly motivated to excel as a student.  He fought through challenges of dyslexia and
ADHD to overcome them and get Bachelor's, Master's, and Doctorate degrees.

He started teaching at a school in Flagstaff, Arizona, that had the most ethnic diversity and highest
poverty in the city.  He taught a wide variety of subjects and coached football.  He was loved by
his students, and empathetic to their struggles.

Soon he became the principal of the school and was able to pilot many programs.  His innovations
became the basis for special education throughout the city of Flagstaff.  Decades later you can see
the legacy that Eric left on the school system.  He emerged as a true civic leader and was deeply
committed to justice and equality for everyone, despite their ethnicity or wealth.  But that was
perhaps not his greatest legacy.


## Family

Eric had four daughters and was a devoted father. Money was always short and the financial needs of
the family were always intense.  This was a source of constant conflict with Eric's parents who
valued material success far above family life or community service.

The family took regular trips to Mexico with a small trailer.  They would camp on the beach in
Mexico.  Eric would interact with all the locals, who were deeply amused at the tall white
guy with four little girls that spoke street Spanish from the barrio.


## Walk of Faith

From his fox-hole conversion on, Eric began to search for meaning and truth.  He struggled with
several personal issues and sought true healing for the wounds in his life.

He valued authenticity and would not put up with BS from anyone.  He despised the pompous arrogance
of those that promoted themselves, which was so common in education and church.  He had true
humility that caused others to trust him and want to follow him.

He was authentic and vulnerable with those he trusted and showed the qualities of a great leader and
wonderful human being.


## Death

His sudden death at 43 shocked everyone.  After years of smoking, a sudden heart attack ended his
life.  My best friend had been coached by Eric and had been deeply impacted by him.  He was
devastated. The funeral was held in our Junior High gymnasium, since no church would hold all of
the mourners that wanted to attend.

The funeral was not the typical affair.  Many of the people attending the funeral were from diverse
ethnic backgrounds and the social norms were different than what was often seen in a white
middle-class funeral.   People were expressing heartfelt grief with sound and body language.  I
think this is a beautiful tribute to a life well lived.


## Lasting legacy

Eric's influence lives on far past his lifetime.  For better or worse, our legacy goes on long after
we are gone.  Certainly, Eric's work carries part of this influence, but the true impact of a life
is always made in people.  How are people changed as a result of how we live?

Eric's greatest impact was how his life affected his daughters.   Those four daughters have grown
into four generations of descendants that carry a part of his legacy.  Eric's worldview, attitudes,
values, and beliefs influenced his daughters even though he died when they were all 15 to 7.

I fell in love with my wife just months after Eric's death.  She was his oldest daughter and
probably most deeply shaped by his life.  I regret that I never got to meet Eric because I
know we would have really connected in a lot of different ways.  But I take comfort in knowing that
I can know Eric through the legacy that he left in the love of my life.

