# Life Is What Happens When You're Busy Making Other Plans

## Introduction

In life, we often believe that we can predict and plan for the future. We make plans, set goals, and
envision the path that lies ahead. However, reality has a way of reminding us that things don't
always go as expected. Recent events have highlighted the unpredictable nature of life, emphasizing
the importance of adapting to unforeseen circumstances. In this article, we discuss a personal
experience that exemplifies this phenomenon and reflects on the significance of priorities and
flexibility in the face of life's unexpected twists and turns.

## The Story of Stacie and the ProMETA App

Since the beginning of the year, Stacie and I have worked tirelessly on developing a software
application for a university called ProMETA. ProMETA offers a unique doctoral program for
Spanish-speaking students interested in theological education. With headquarters based in Costa
Rica, ProMETA serves students from around the world. As the university sought to expand, they
recognized the need for efficient student registration software.

Our app was designed to meet this requirement. After months of hard work, we were finally ready to
deliver the enterprise application to ProMETA. Stacie was scheduled to fly to Costa Rica on Sunday
to oversee the deployment and provide training on how to use the software. Unfortunately, life had
other plans in store for us.

## The Unexpected Turn of Events

On Friday morning, Stacie began experiencing chest pains, prompting us to rush to the emergency
room. While tests ruled out a heart attack, further examination revealed potential blockages and a
diagnosis of heart disease, placing Stacie at high risk. She was subsequently admitted overnight,
and a stress test was scheduled for the following morning to determine the next course of action.

## The Importance of Flexibility and Prioritization

As we sat in the hospital room, reflecting on the situation, we couldn't help but appreciate the
significance of the unexpected. It served as a sobering reminder that no matter how meticulously we
plan our lives, unforeseen events can disrupt our carefully organized schedules. This experience
emphasized the importance of flexibility and the need to adapt to changing circumstances.

In this instance, Stacie's health became the priority, overshadowing any other plans or commitments
we had made. While the app's deployment and training were undoubtedly important, they paled in
comparison to taking care of Stacie's health and well-being. We realized that sometimes, life
forces us to recalibrate our priorities and reassess what truly matters.

## Gratitude for Timing and Support

Amidst the uncertainty and worry, one silver lining was that Stacie's health issues were discovered
before she embarked on her trip to Costa Rica. Imagine the challenges and complexity we would have
faced if this had occurred while she was overseas. We are grateful for the timing of events and the
support we have received from medical professionals and loved ones.

## Conclusion

Ultimately, life is an unpredictable journey. We can make plans and envision our future, but it is
vital to recognize that unexpected events can arise at any moment. It is in these moments that our
ability to adapt and reprioritize becomes crucial. Stacie's health scare reminded us of the
importance of flexibility, the fragility of our plans, and the value of focusing on what truly
matters. Life is what happens when we're busy making other plans, and it is our resilience and
adaptability that allow us to navigate the twists and turns that come our way.

Stay tuned for the next chapter ...

