# Mid-life Journey

## The Season


Building a family and career takes all our energy.  There is almost nothing left over.   Our young
adult years (from 20-40 for most people) are completely consumed by success at work and home.
Building a life is extremely hard work.

For most of us we have had to lay aside any personal dreams that we once had to focus on survival
and success.  After decades of denying our dreams the bill comes due.  It is normal to view our
young adult years with resentment for the sacrifices that we have had to make.

When success comes it seems empty of the fulfillment that it once promised.  It is possible to be
successful at work and family and still feel that your life is completely barren.  As people
approach mid-life, there is often a growing sense of dissatisfaction.

Lost years of personal fulfillment leave us vulnerable to a panic response. Some will decide that
the sacrifices made are no longer worthwhile and that they have not been living the life that they
desire.   They may destroy everything in their lives in order to start over again.


## The Bargain


All religions and belief systems  seem to have their own version of the "The Bargain".  This is a
powerful lie that controls our lives throughout our early adult years.  It comes in many guises and
is easily adapted to any set of beliefs.

Simple stated, the crux of The Bargain with God is, "If you are good, God will make your life good".
The beauty of this moral philosophy is how universal it is.   Atheists can easily
substitute "Universe" for "God" and readily agree in principle.

In every culture and subculture that I am aware of, this same philosophy provides the bedrock
understanding of what it means to be human. In the USA there is a particularly potent strain of The
Bargain that permeates our culture.

We call it the Great American Dream.  

    If we work hard and are honest and love our country, then we will have prosperity and success
    and the right to rule the world.
    
    Prosperity and Success
    - Satisfying job where I am well treated
    - Well ordered family (2.2 kids and a dog)
    - Material comforts (house, 2 cars, home theater, storage unit)
    
    Right to Rule
    - My prosperity will be guaranteed by the government
    - My privileges will be protected by force when threatened
    - In exchange I will support all government policies
    - Poverty outside of my group is not my problem

This is the biggest lie we all believe.  The reason we all believe it is that it gives us the
illusion of control over every aspect of our lives.  It allows us to avoid any real responsibility
for others that suffer. After all, they must have broken The Bargain.

It also lets us take credit for all of the prosperity that we are able to experience.  We celebrate
our achievements while shrugging off the suffering of minorities and foreigners who don't deserve
the good life. We are especially hostile toward those who feel shut out from the benefits we
enjoy.

Some people can continue believing The Bargain their entire lives.  But for most of us it begins to
break down as we enter the season of mid-life.  It is this breakdown that causes a crisis of belief
in our lives.


## The Crisis

A crisis can be triggered by a major event, such as the loss of a loved one, teenager implosion, job
loss or divorce.   Or it may simply be the result of the daily grind of life getting to be too much
to handle.  However you get there, you know that life cannot and will not go on the way it has.
Something has got to change.

I have lost my dreams and my hope and my sense of identity.  I must seek real change to put me on a
path toward the life that I want to live in.  All options are on the table to pursue a better life.
Success is not enough when it lacks any sense of purpose and meaning.

Most people have some kind of a mid-life crisis.  I've often joked with my wife that I've been able
to perfect it to an art.  Starting in my mid 30s I had a mid-life crisis about every other year for
a decade.  I found that a series of small crises allow me to adjust my life direction without
requiring me to trash everything I had worked so hard to build.

During the decade of crisis my world view was de-constructed and reconstructed with a more mature
understanding of reality.  Some people try to resolve the crisis in different ways, they might
cling to adolescent understanding or try to double down on The Bargain. Others reject everything
they once believed in favor of a brand new belief system that matches their current reality.

During this time I was actively involved in an evangelical church and sent my teenage kids to
Christian school. Both of these communities have a strong worldview and were eager to reinforce the
community belief system.  Fortunately, peer pressure has little influence on what believe and this
bought me time to carefully evaluate my beliefs, principles, and practices on my own terms.

As a result I was able to create a mature understanding of reality by the age of 45 that combined
the best of the evangelical ideas while rejecting the false beliefs of the group.  During this
difficult time I was able to find my own understanding of reality and not just accept the norms and
teachings of any group.  For many it is hard to differentiate between the personal identity and
that of the group.  But for me, it is relatively natural to think independently.

The main characteristic  of the mid-life season is growing sense of being trapped by constraints
that are no longer desirable.  There is an awareness that what brought success in the early life is
not sustainable.  Balance of personal needs and the needs of others must be achieved.  Life is more
than just success.  It is search for these answers that lead us to start our quest for purpose.


## The Quest

We never choose the season of life that we are in.  The season happens whether we are ready for it
or not.  We never choose to embark on a quest.  We do it out of necessity.   We must find answers
and so the quest begins.

The quest for meaning and purpose begins when we recognize that we are no longer satisfied with the
easy answers of our early adulthood.  We still want a great family and success at work, but there
is a limit to how much satisfaction these things will bring.  What is the true meaning behind our
lives?  How do we balance the infinite demands on our money, time, and energy?

This is a time of life when each person must decide how they will balance the needs of others with
their own personal needs.  It always involves a distinct shift from DOING to BEING. For most of my
life I have been consumed by performance anxiety.   I used to blame this on my childhood upbringing
but now recognize that it is much more a systemic part of my personality.

This desire to perform has served me well in many arenas and allowed me to accomplish great things.
But it has also left me dysfunctional in many ways. During mid-life I seriously questioned the true
basis of my identity for the first time.   I will never forget my mentor asking me, "Mark, who are
you if you are not able to accomplish anything?"  At that time in my life I had no answer. I was
what I did - nothing more.  This was a moment of clarity on my journey.

If I can run faster that any rat in the rat race, I'm still just a rat.  I once had a manager tell
me that in a horse race there are just fractions of a second that determine the winner and that if
I would just invest 10% effort in my career I could be a true winner.  My church buddies were
telling me at the same time that if I would devote 20 hours a week to my family and volunteer work
that everything would be wonderful. 

While both of these demands appear to be quite different, they are driven from the very same idea. 

1. I am only as good as my last performance.  
2. These external demands must be met in order to
justify my existence.  
3. My life is little more than my usefulness to others.  
4. I must keep
performing to have any value.


## The Goal

I've been on this quest for meaning  for over 20 years and I can say that it definitely has an end.
There is a pot of gold labeled "Self Awareness".   The understanding of my personal identity that
is not based on what I do has been intensely freeing to me.  I am able to see that my life has
value and worth even if I do nothing.  

I am now free to build the life that matches my strengths, personality, skills, experiences, and
quirks.  I know that even my weaknesses are part of who I am.  This gives me the confidence to
expose my flaws to others, in a way that would have been unthinkable twenty years ago.  I am
comfortable finally in my own skin. I accept and  appreciate my life for what it actually is ...
warts and all.

As a result of my mid-life journey I am free to Work, Love, Grow, and Enjoy life in a way that is
totally unique to me.  I no longer care that much about the judgment of others because I am free to
be authentic to live out the destiny that I have been given.   Each day I have the opportunity to
be someone else or to be me.  I choose my life!

