# My People

by Mark Seaman

---

2000 years ago my people were called **Barbarians**.

Under the command of  Arminius, we decimated three Roman legions in the German
forests. To block the advance of Rome.  We changed the world.  Rome was to make
no further advance into our heartland.

1400 years ago my people. were call **Saxon**.

The lure of expansion brought us to the islands to the west.  After the natives
were subdued we built a good life in this beautiful land.  We built kingdoms and
churches and began to amass wealth.

1200 years ago my people. were called **Norsemen**.

Our lives were hard in the north and we needed to go viking to survive.  Our
people built tens-of-thousands of long boats so we could settle in lands
currently occupied by others.  We came like a flood with fire and axe in hand to
make a better life.  We fought, we settled, and we ruled.

1000 years ago my people were called **Norman**.

Our people were at Hastings when the great battle changed history.  We fought
and died on both sides.  We were part of the subjugation of the island nation
and the crusades that followed to retake the Holy Land.

800 years ago my people were called **Plantagenet**.

We fought in the Holy Land and setup the Kingdom of Heaven to rule the heathen
with a fist of iron.  We ruthlessly suppressed rebellions in Ireland, Scotland,
Wales, Bordeaux, and Brittany.  We built 1000 castles as mighty fortresses to
protect the rule of law.  We grew tired of fighting but it had become who we
were.   We opposed King John and made him sign a document that limited his
power, but he made us pay with our lives. We rebelled against Edward and were
soundly defeated.

600 years ago my people were called **English**.

We were decimated by plague, 100 years war, and the Wars of the Roses.   Half of
my people died within five short years. Life was hard, short, and brutal. A few
of us were from noble families, but most were serfs and peasants.  We lived at
the will of the lords and were frequently called upon to fight for their honor.
This was a time of great suffering.  

400 years ago my people were called **Tudor**.

My people were part of the great religious wars that tore through Europe.  They
watched as John Wycliffe burned for translating the scripture into modern
language. They fought with each other as Gustav Adolfos tore through the German
countryside.  They were part of the church rebellions of Henry, Luther, and
Calvin. Some of my ancestors fled to the New World in response.  They saw
America as an opportunity to start anew. Some of my people were friends with
William Penn.

200 years ago my people were called **British**.

Our people ruled the seas and were the disputed rulers of the world.  We have
colonies every where are across the earth.  Our army and navy were the greatest
in the world, but we were at constant war.  Our colonies had a desire to break
away so the military was called upon the destroy all rebellions.  Many of my
ancestors fought in the revolution. Meriwether Lewis explored the west.

100 years ago my people were called **American**.

We settled the Kentucky wilderness and the mountains of Pennsylvania, rich with
coal. My ancestors owned slaves and fought for their freedom.  My people died on
both side of the Civil War.  My people continue the legacy of that primal 
struggle for human decency and honor. We seek to both repair and preserve the
great stain of slavery on the soul of America.

My people have been shaped largely by the almost constant conflict we have
endured. My people have often been on both sides of the fight. We have been both
Victors and Victims (Oppressors and Oppressed).  I am proud of those that have
fought for justice and ashamed of those who have fought against it.  But this is
my family legacy. It is part of who I am.

