# Native American Work

## Native American Linguistics and Culture

In 1968, Dave Seaman moved to Flagstaff, Arizona, marking the beginning of an extraordinary journey dedicated to the
study and preservation of Native American languages and cultures. His work, which began soon after his relocation,
involved close collaboration with various Native communities, including the Hopi, Navajo, Zuni, Havasupai, Mojave, and
Acoma tribes. Seaman's efforts were instrumental in organizing and conducting field research alongside other linguists,
ultimately leading to a significant and expansive collection of anthropological data.


## A Monumental Research Collection

Seaman's dedication to his fieldwork was evident in the meticulous documentation of his research. Over the years, his
collection grew to encompass a staggering 56,000 pages, meticulously compiled in looseleaf notebooks. Recognizing the
immense value of this information, Seaman took on the monumental task of combining and indexing all the original
research materials. This effort culminated in the creation of a master index, a crucial tool that provided quick and
efficient access to specific materials within the collection.

In 1995, after 15 years of relentless work (1980-1995), the entire collection was donated to the Northern Arizona
University (NAU) Special Collections. To preserve the integrity and longevity of the documents, a climate-controlled
vault was constructed to house this invaluable archive. This collection has since become a cornerstone of
anthropological research, widely used by countless PhD students and other researchers. It stands as one of the most
important archives for the study of Native American cultures and languages.

The creation of the master index was a pivotal achievement in making the collection accessible. I had the privilege of
writing the software that read the specific index entries, converted them into the master index, and printed the final
version. This technological advancement was crucial in ensuring that researchers could easily navigate the vast amount
of information contained within Seaman's collection.


## Beyond Research: A Holistic Contribution

While Seaman's contributions to anthropology are monumental, his impact extended beyond academic research. Throughout
his career, he also assisted various tribes with accounting and government compliance, ensuring that they met necessary
regulatory requirements. 

This work was done concurrently with his teaching responsibilities at NAU, showcasing his
dedication to both education and community service.  He was a beloved professor, known for his engaging lectures in cultural anthropology and linguistics. His passion for teaching and his commitment to preserving Native American languages and cultures left an indelible mark on his students and the wider academic community.

One of his students, Diana Gabaldon, went on to become a renowned author, known for her "Outlander" series. She
undoubtedly learned much from Seaman's teachings and his dedication to preserving cultural heritage. His influence on
her work is evident in the rich tapestry of history and culture woven throughout her novels.


## Dave Seaman's Legacy

Dave Seaman's career spanned several decades, culminating in his retirement in 1994 at the age of 62. His tireless work
not only advanced our understanding of Native American cultures and languages but also ensured the preservation of this
knowledge for future generations. His contributions have left an indelible mark on the field of anthropology and
continue to inspire researchers and scholars.

Dave Seaman's work is a testament to the power of dedication and collaboration in the pursuit of knowledge. His
comprehensive research collection, now housed at NAU, remains a vital resource for the study of Native American
cultures. Through his efforts, Seaman has made an enduring contribution to the preservation and understanding of the
rich cultural heritage of Native American communities.

