# My friend Rodney 


My friend Rodney had a giant heart.   He was always kind, considerate, generous,
and reliable.  He was the type of person that I wish I could be more
like. We had many shared experiences together over the years.  

His life ended at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic.  He was the first 
person that I knew to die of the disease at a time when no one thought that
it would hit Colorado.  His death had a very sobering impact on me.  It would 
set the tone of mourning and loss that would last for the next two years.


## House Building

About 25 years ago our church got involved in helping to alleviate poverty.   We
got involved with an organization that was building houses in Mexico.  Many of
the families that we built houses for were living in shacks made or cardboard
boxes and shipping palettes. 

Seeing the poverty that these people lived in was life changing.   Amor
Ministries had grown from a single guy crossing the border with a van full of
clothing to build 20,000 homes. They created a plan for a team of people to
build a house in four days.

Rodney was a part of our team.  We took between 20-30 people each year to Juarez
to build houses for the homeless.  We gathered all of the tools and camping
supplies for the trip over spring break and caravanned to Juarez.  

Entire families would travel to the site and we would camp out during the
construction. Amor would deliver all of the construction materials to the site
and provide a training manual with detailed plans for how to build the house.

    - Day 1 - dig footing and mix concrete for the foundation 
    - Day 2 - frame the house and windows 
    - Day 3 - insulating board, chicken wire, and roof 
    - Day 4 - stucco and trim

Rodney was a great help on these trips.  His calm demeanor and easy going style
were quite welcome, when people were in a state of high stress during the trip.


## Baptism

Our religious traditions tend to be neither religious or traditional.   We feel
that the heart of the matter is most important, not the outward form.  Our idea
of baptism is no different.

We believe that baptism is a public acknowledgement of a commitment to follow
Christ.  It can happen anywhere where there is water.  We have conducted baptism
events in bathtubs, horse troughs, lakes and swimming pools.  

We also believe that any follower of Christ is authorized to oversee the task. 
I often hear people say that they do not believe in any kind of organized
religion.  I tell them to join us because we are not at all organized.

One day we had a baptism in the swimming pool at the house of one of the church
members. That day we had about 15 - 20 people get baptized.  Among them were my
son and Rodney.  I had the privilege of baptizing both of them.

Later we had a barbecue and it was a great time.  We feel that community is as
important as teaching and singing.


## Prayer

My wife and I developed the habit of arriving at church early to visit with
people.   We call it prayer walking because that sounds super spiritual, but it
is a much a social activity as a practice of advanced holiness.

We wander all over the church building and find people that getting ready for
the church service.  We ask them how things are going and if they have any
concerns that we pray about with them.

We would always find Rodney making coffee upstairs and talk with him each week. 
 In February Rodney started getting sick.  He indicated that he had been to the
ER and was having problems with blood pressure and breathing.  

For several weeks we met with him and he was not getting better. When we pray
for people we often get up close and personal if that is OK for the parties
involved.  We believe that physical contact can be a sign of respect and family
and camaraderie.


## Pandemic

The pandemic was declared by the World Health Organization on March 11.  At that
time no knew much about the distant threat posed by the coronavirus. It was hard
for any of us to imagine that this mysterious killer was already in our midst.

He told me that it was very difficult to get tested for the coronavirus but that
he was trying. Shortly after we visited he went into the hospital.  He was
eventually put on a ventilator and was fighting a high fever.  Although the
fever finally broke the disease attacked his organs and he died.

I was shocked and dismayed by Rodney's death. How could we lose such a precious
man?  Why were we so unprepared?  Rodney's test came back after he died
confirming that he had the coronavirus. 

During the following year the government incompetency was fully revealed. It
became clear that the government was in full denial and utterly unprepared to
deal with the crisis.  I will never forget the anger that I felt at those
leaders who refused to acknowledge the suffering of so many.

Rodney's death was the harbinger of what was about to unfold in all of our
lives.  He was a precious friend and I miss him greatly.  Losing Rodney was the
first of many losses that I was to experience that year.

