# The Summer Institute of Linguistics

When my dad accepted a position at Northern Arizona University (NAU), they made an enticing offer: an additional
thousand dollars if he came early to meet with the professors of the summer institutes in geology and physics. The goal
was for Dr. Seaman to establish a new summer institute in linguistics at NAU.

Eager to begin this new chapter, he flew out to Flagstaff, bought a house, and then returned to Kentucky to move his
family.

In those early days, Dr. Seaman collaborated closely with the professors leading the institutes for geology and physics.
They frequently held sessions at local restaurants, sharing insights and strategies. They generously provided him with
copies of their institute materials, laying the groundwork for his own initiative.

Dr. Seaman envisioned a unique linguistic institute, one that would stand out in the academic landscape. With the
guidance of his new colleagues, he crafted a detailed proposal, confident in its potential. When he presented it, the
response was overwhelmingly positive, and the institute took off.

That first summer, Dr. Seaman worked tirelessly to establish the Summer Institute of Linguistics (SIL). It quickly
gained recognition as the only one of its kind in the country. Even during his second year, when he was in Greece, the
institute continued to thrive due to his dedicated assistants, Terry and Nancy Rich.

For six years, the institute was a resounding success. It became well-known in academic circles, and Dr. Seaman was
invited to speak at a gathering of institute directors in Washington, D.C. There were over 150 institutes represented,
and when he stood up to share his ideas, the room fell silent. "Yes, Dr. Seaman," the moderator acknowledged him by
name, a testament to the reputation SIL had garnered.

The students were selected from high schools around the country and were required to be in the top 1% of all students.
From hundreds of applications, only 30 students were selected. These trips offered students, all of whom were top
achievers from across the country, a chance to bond and learn in a dynamic setting.

The institute wasn't just about academics; it was an immersive experience. In 12 weeks, the students were taught
linguistics and how to analyze an unknown language through interviews with native speakers.

Every Saturday, they organized excursions to Flagstaff's local attractions. Walnut Canyon, Meteor Crater, the Grand
Canyon, Sedona, and Lowell Observatory became integral parts of the program, providing students with a blend of
education and exploration. Montezuma's Castle and the historic town of Jerome were also popular destinations.

Eventually, Dr. Seaman decided to step back from the institute to focus on other projects, like the Hopi dictionary.
Despite its challenges, the Summer Institute of Linguistics had left a lasting legacy. When he stopped applying for
grants, colleagues and administrators often inquired why he wasn't continuing.

The institute had become an integral part of NAU's summer programs, influencing not just the students but the entire
academic community. It was held up as an example of how institutes should be run.

Reflecting on those years, Dr. Seaman realized how much the institute had shaped his career and personal life. The
experiences and memories created during those summer months were invaluable, not just for him but for everyone involved.
He couldn't help but feel a deep sense of pride and nostalgia for what they had accomplished.

The Summer Institute of Linguistics was more than just a program; it was a testament to the power of collaboration,
vision, and dedication. It was a unique chapter in Dr. Seaman's life, one that he would always cherish.

