# Tesseract OCR Project


Thirty-five years ago, I was a 29-year-old engineer, having spent eight years immersed in the innovative environment of
the R&D lab at HP. Our team was focused on building scanners, but we were on the hunt for the next big thing—a killer
app that would revolutionize our technology. The solution emerged when Ray Smith, freshly armed with a PhD from the
University of Edinburgh, joined us with his expertise in Optical Character Recognition (OCR) technology.

The project was named Tesseract after a short story by Robert Heinlein that I had read as a teen. That must be where Dr.
Who got the name from as well. The Tesseract was a fourth-dimensional cube, and our project aimed to bend space and
produce text from an image.

OCR is a fascinating technology that converts images into text documents. Each image is essentially a matrix of pixels
or dots, and OCR software analyzes these pixels to identify and extract shapes, which are then recognized as characters.
Our mission was to create the world's most accurate OCR system, capable of deciphering even the most badly degraded
photocopies. Each subsequent generation of a photocopy distorts the characters further, making them broken and merged—an
incredibly challenging scenario for character recognition.

The human brain excels at recognizing shapes, not only identifying individual characters but also entire words. Our task
was to replicate this phenomenal capability in a machine. My specific role in this ambitious project was to develop the
word recognition layer on top of the character recognition engine. It was an immensely complex and interesting project,
one that demanded every ounce of my skills and creativity. 

For three years, our dedicated team of five engineers worked tirelessly on this project. Despite the slow and limited
computing power of that era, we managed to create the most accurate OCR system in the world. Our solution was ten times
more accurate than our nearest competitor when it came to recognizing text in poor-quality photocopies. This was a
monumental achievement, yet it posed a significant business dilemma.

Our primary business was selling scanners, and our managers were concerned that by developing our own OCR, we might
jeopardize our partnerships with existing OCR vendors who helped drive our scanner sales. To justify our team's
existence, we needed to demonstrate a product revenue of $50 million annually. Unfortunately, we couldn't prove such
revenue potential, and the project was subsequently canceled, with the technology shelved indefinitely.

In a scene reminiscent of the warehouse in *Indiana Jones and the Lost Ark* where forgotten treasures are stored, our
groundbreaking Tesseract OCR was consigned to a similar fate. I was heartbroken. This project had been the pinnacle of
my career, with immense potential to benefit countless people.

Fifteen years later, a glimmer of hope emerged. The Tesseract OCR project was resurrected when it was donated to Google
as part of their open-source initiative. Now in the public domain, anyone could use and improve upon it. This breathed
new life into the project, and today, Tesseract OCR is the standard for optical character recognition. It is integrated
into numerous products, including Google Translate, enabling users to take a picture with text, extract the text, and
translate it seamlessly. It's also available as a standalone product that can be invoked from tools like ChatGPT,
allowing users to extract and manipulate text from images automatically.

This remarkable journey of Tesseract OCR is undoubtedly the most significant and successful technical achievement of my
life. Over my career, I have been granted 12 patents, developed over 100 applications, and written more than a million
lines of code. However, the work I am most proud of remains the Tesseract project from three and a half decades ago.