# My Travels in Greece

I've had the unique opportunity to travel to Greece during all four seasons of life: childhood, adulthood, mid-life, and
old age. Each time, these journeys marked significant transition points in my life, offering new perspectives and
deepening my connection to this ancient land.


#### Greece at 10 in 1969: A Child's Perspective

In 1969, Greece was a land of wonder for a ten-year-old. The culture, language, and atmosphere were entirely different
from anything I had known. My family lived in the upper story of a home in Athens, and I attended an American school.
Immersed in the local culture, I quickly learned enough Greek to navigate the city by myself and even acted as a tour
guide to visiting friends and relatives. 

The vibrant streets of Athens, filled with the sounds of bustling markets and the aroma of fresh souvlaki, were my
playground. The ancient ruins, like the Acropolis, sparked my imagination, making history feel alive and personal. Even
as a child, I was captivated by the grandeur of the culture and history of Greece,
telling stories of gods, goddesses, and ancient warriors.

This trip, however, was also marked by the oppressive atmosphere of a police state. Greece was under military rule, and
even as a child, I could sense the tension in the air. Soldiers and police were a common sight, their presence a
constant reminder of the political unrest that gripped the country. We were under constant surveilance since they thought
my dad worked for the CIA.  Despite this, the beauty of Greece shone through,
especially during Easter on Crete. The island came alive with traditions, colors, and celebrations that left a lasting
impression on me.

Easter in Crete was unlike anything I had ever experienced. The entire island seemed to pulsate with life, as families
gathered to celebrate. The smell of lamb roasting on a spit filled the air, mingling with the scent of wildflowers and
the salty breeze from the sea. The sound of church bells ringing out across the island, calling people to midnight mass,
still echoes in my memory. The warmth and hospitality of the Cretan people, their deep connection to tradition, and
their joyous celebration of life made this Easter one of the most memorable I've ever experienced.


#### Greece at 40 in 1999: An Adult's Perspective

Returning to Greece in 1999, thirty years later, felt like a pilgrimage. This time, the trip was centered around the
"Journeys of Paul" tour led by my father. We retraced the steps of the apostle Paul through this ancient land, visiting
places I had only read about in books and the Bible. This journey was spiritual, intellectual, and deeply personal. 

Walking through the ruins of Corinth, where Paul preached to the Corinthians, I could almost hear the echoes of his
words. Standing in the Areopagus in Athens, where Paul delivered his famous sermon about the "unknown god," I felt a
deep connection to the history of early Christianity. These were not just historical sites; they were places where the
foundations of my faith were laid, and visiting them brought a profound sense of reverence and awe.

The Greece I returned to was different in many ways. The world had changed, and so had I. Traveling had become a
significant part of my life, shaping my worldview and making this return even more poignant. It was fascinating to see
how Greece had evolved over the decades. The infrastructure was more modern, the cities more cosmopolitan, yet the
timeless beauty and spirit of Greece remained unchanged. The landscapes that had once seemed so vast and mysterious in
my childhood had become familiar, yet they still held the power to inspire and captivate me.

Walking through places that held childhood memories, I realized how travel transforms us, adding layers of experiences
and perspectives. Seeing the Acropolis again, now with the eyes of an adult, I was struck not only by its architectural
grandeur but also by its resilience. It had weathered wars, natural disasters, and the passage of time, yet it still
stood, a testament to the enduring legacy of ancient Greece.


#### Greece at 50 in 2009: Ocean Cruises

By 2009, Greece had become a familiar yet always exciting destination. This time, the trip was about luxury and leisure,
with ocean cruises taking us through the stunning Greek Islands. The azure waters, whitewashed buildings, and the slow,
relaxed pace of island life were perfect for savoring the beauty of Greece at a different speed. 

The Greek islands are like jewels scattered across the Aegean and Ionian Seas, each with its own unique charm and
character. Santorini, with its iconic blue-domed churches and dramatic caldera views, offered a sense of romance and
wonder. Mykonos, with its shops and stunning beaches, provided the perfect backdrop for relaxation and fun.

Nauplio and Athens were highlights, with their blend of history, culture, and modern vibrancy. Nauplio, the first
capital of modern Greece, charmed us with its Venetian architecture, cobblestone streets, and breathtaking views of the
sea. Exploring its ancient fortress, Palamidi, and walking along the seaside promenade were experiences that brought the
rich history of Greece to life.

In Athens, we visited our favorite restaurant from 10 years earlier, a place that became our go-to spot for enjoying
traditional Greek cuisine. This restaurant, nestled in the Plaka district, offered not only delicious food but also a
view of the Acropolis that was nothing short of magical. As we dined on moussaka, souvlaki, and fresh Greek salad, the
Acropolis, bathed in the golden light of the setting sun, stood as a majestic reminder of the enduring spirit of Greece.

The memories of sitting in that restaurant, with its view of the Acropolis, sharing delicious meals and laughter, are
treasures that I carry with me. We enjoyed this trip so much that we repeated it the following year, this time with our
daughter, who was soon to move to Japan. These two trips were the last ocean cruises we took together, and they
hold a special place in my heart.


#### Greece at 65 in 2024: A Journey of Reflection

As I prepare for another journey to Greece in 2024, I find myself reflecting on the past and the ways in which Greece
has been a constant thread in the tapestry of my life. This trip, similar to the one I took 25 years ago, will
undoubtedly be a time of reflection and connection. Taking the "Footsteps of Paul" tour once again, this journey will be
enriched by the presence of friends I've known for fifty years.

Sharing these experiences with people who have been part of my life for so long will add a profound depth to the trip.
Together, we will revisit the places that have shaped our lives and our friendships, creating new memories while
honoring the old. The thought of standing once again in the places where history was made, where my faith was deepened,
and where I have found so much inspiration, fills me with a sense of anticipation and gratitude.

This journey is also about life after Stacie, my late wife of 45 years. Her absence is a void that will never be filled,
yet this trip is an opportunity to embrace my identity as a writer, something she always encouraged me to do. Greece,
with its rich history of storytelling, has become a place of inspiration for me. Wandering through ancient ruins,
writing in cafes overlooking the Aegean, and contemplating the chapters of my life, I feel a deep connection to the land
and its stories.

A this point in my life, I am more aware of the passage of time, the fragility of life, and the importance of cherishing
every moment.  My experiences are pregnant with meaning, and I am eager to drink it all in.

This upcoming journey is not just a vacation; it is a pilgrimage, a return to a place that has been a touchstone in my
life. It is a journey of the heart, mind, and soul, and I am ready to embrace all that Greece has to offer once again.
From the ancient ruins of Athens to the serene beauty of the islands, from the vibrant streets of Thessaloniki to the
peaceful monasteries of Meteora, Greece is a land that continues to captivate and inspire me, a land where the past and
present are woven together in a tapestry of timeless beauty.

