# UNC Retirement

After seven years of teaching at the University of Northern Colorado (UNC), I am thrilled to announce my retirement. My
journey at UNC's Monfort College of Business began with a deep desire to train students in the skills that were often
lacking in newly graduated engineers that I worked with during my decades of experience in the high-tech industry.


## UNC Revenue

I am grateful for the opportunity to have taught at UNC and for the many lessons I learned along the way. During my time
at UNC, I had the privilege of instructing and guiding 433 students, delivering a total of 1,300 credit hours. Through
these efforts, I contributed significantly to revenue generation for UNC, producing $2.6 million, assuming a rate of
$2,000 per credit hour.


## Course Creation

To equip students with the necessary skills to thrive in the rapidly evolving tech industry, I developed several
courses. These courses included "Introduction to Web Development with HTML and CSS", "Intermediate Web Development with
Python, Django, and PostGRES", and "Software Engineering Skills - a project-based approach". Creating comprehensive
courses of this caliber demands around 1,000 hours of effort per course, resulting in a total investment of 3,000 hours
for these three courses alone.


## Classroom Teaching

In addition to developing these courses, I also taught 17 sections during my time at UNC. This encompassed not only
classroom instruction but also lesson preparation, grading, and constant communication with my students. On average,
each section required 150-250 hours of my time, equating to a total commitment of 2,600-4,250 hours.

Considering the time spent on course creation and classroom teaching, I have devoted a total of 6,000-7,000 hours over
the course of my seven-year journey as an adjunct professor at UNC. This experience has provided me with invaluable
insights into the current state of higher education and the dynamics of teaching.


## Dynamics of Teaching

Directly observing the progress of student learning has allowed me to refine my teaching techniques and optimize the
rate at which students can absorb the material. I developed effective methods for project-based and team-based learning
I have gained a deep appreciation for how learning activities must be divided into smaller units of skills that can be
aggregated. This understanding will be used to enhance the learning experience in the new courses being created at
Shrinking World.

I have also learned that the most effective way to teach is to provide students with a framework for learning and then
forcing them to apply that framework to solve problems. This approach is in stark contrast to the traditional method of
teaching, which involves providing students with a set of facts and then testing them on their ability to recall them.

Teaching technology requires students to grapple with complex problems and the discover the solutions for themselves.  I
have come to realize that my role as a teacher is to provide guidance about how they can best learn. Working as a team
is a critical skill that is often overlooked in the classroom.  I have learned that students must be given specific
responsibilities and held accountable for their individual work.  This is the only way to ensure that all students
participate and learn the material.


## Future Plans

I founded Shrinking World in 2007 after retiring from Hewlett Packard.  It is a software development and training
company which seeks to teach both new and established engineers core technical skills. I have set aside many of my
company plans during my time at UNC, but now I am eager to pursue them again.

My time will be spent building content for the Shrinking World Academy which already has several online courses. I have
authored three textbooks and created three online courses. As I embark on this new chapter of my life, I eagerly look
forward to writing additional textbooks and courses. 

My focus lies in teaching the skills necessary for individuals to thrive in the modern world, particularly in the realm
of software development processes, technology, and leveraging generative AI for course creation and written content.

Currently, I am working on several Seminars, which consist of one hour of video content, as well as Workshops, which
comprise four hours of video content on these subjects. My goal is to produce a new Seminar each month and a Workshop
each quarter. 

Reflecting on my time at UNC, I am grateful for the formative and informative experiences it provided. The knowledge and
insight gained will now enable me to serve a much broader audience through the expansion of Shrinking World Academy and
my ongoing pursuit of technical education.

