# My Work Day

Establishing habits for doing work is based on the idea that different times of
the day are optimal for doing different types of tasks.  I work at home and have
very few appointments.   This allows me to control what activities I do when.

I divide my work to make the most of the natural rhythms that affect my
alertness.  I am not rigid about sticking to this plan but recognize that this
is the optimal work rhythm for maximum performance.


## 8-10 - CREATE


The morning is the time when I have the most mental energy.  I start the day by
investing in creative work.  During the night, when I should be sleeping, I
typically get ideas.  First thing each day, I try to capture these ideas before
they evaporate.

The morning brainstorm often involves problems that my subconscious has been
grinding on.   I  attempt to pull these out to look at them consciously.  The
usually sparks an outburst of enthusiasm for some new project of feature on an
existing one.

I dive right into the project that has captured my interest in the moment.  I
make no attempt to weigh the merits, but just dive headlong, to see how far I
can get.  This is the time where I write like a mad man. This is the best time
of every day.


## 10-12 - LEARN


The next portion of my stay is spent integrating all of the different pieces of
work together.  This is when I do testing of the software, editing of the
articles I've written, building outlines of new content, and reviewing the
courses being developed.  This is the detailed work that is necessary to make
the ideas real.

While this time brings less joy it is the most productive time on my projects. 
I typically use a structured approach to the development.

- Test
- Fix
- Extend
- Improve

Another activity I typically do during this time is learning.  There are always
new technologies that I would love to learn more about.  I use this time to
pursue those and try out new ideas.

Every project has issues, challenges, and problems to solve.  Concentrated time
much be spent in creative problem solving.


## 1-3 - ORGANIZE


I force myself to organize my work and coordinate the projects with other
collaborators.  This is my least favorite part of work life so I often minimize
it in favor of doing more creative work. When things have problems it is usually
because I do not invest enough energy in this area.

Most of the reason that this is difficult for me is related to my personality.  
Many of the attributes that make me creative also make social interaction
difficult.  This part of my work day requires that I look beyond the creative
project work to the human dynamics of the project.

My personality traits tend toward task over people, but I recognize the
importance of working with others.   As an Introvert I get energy by working
alone and it take energy for working with others. As an Intuitive I love the big
picture and coordination is a mind-numbing focus on details.  I must put my
creativity on hold to coordinate with others and this feels like it slows me
down.


## 3-5 - PLAN


I love to dream about the future and work to make the present projects turn into
the future that I desire.  While organizing requires me to work with others,
planning is totally under my control.  This time in my work day is dedicated to
shaping the active projects and moving them toward completion.

There is an infinite number of goals that I would love to pursue but a very
limited amount of time or energy.  Clear priorities are required to produce the
results that I desire most.  I have a clear list of active projects sorted by
priority.  Within each of these project I maintain a prioritized list of
deliverable results I wish to achieve.

Planning for success involves matching the project priorities with the time I
intent to invest in the near future.  Each day I review my priorities to make
any changes that are needed.  I find that by regulating the invested time well,
that the actual project goals happen without much planning.   Maintaining the
proper priorities is my main planning activity.


## Perfect Work Day


Of course, the perfect day rarely occurs.  Things happen and I also act
spontaneously when the mood strikes.   But I still find it quite useful to have
a picture of my ideal work day.  This lets me contrast the reality of my day and
look for missing elements that may have been overlooked.  I encourage you to
think about what your ideal day might look like.  This is bound to generate some
fresh insights.