# Becoming an Adult

## Seasons of Life

There are four major seasons of life.  Each of these have fundamentally different
challenges and opportunities.   The season is inevitable because our lives are
not static but constantly changing.

As life changes, so do all of the details that affect our daily living.  Just as
the weather patterns change in predictable ways, our experience will follow
predictable patterns.  These seasons of life must be understood in order to 
adapt properly to them.

Read the article entitled "[Seasons of Life](Seasons)" to get a general overview.


## What makes an adult?


There are many possible answers to this question.  I've been pondering this for
years as I consider my own journey and that of my kids. The most satisfying
answer is related to the attitudes that we have about our relationship
with others.

The journey to adulthood is arduous and dangerous and filled with seemingly
insurmountable obstacles.  No one would embark on that journey unless the
alternative is even worse.  Our teen years are governed by the choices of
others.  Our parents and others in society take care of our needs and provide
protection.  We all develop a belief that it is our right to be cared for by
others; it is their job.  We call this entitlement.

For some this is a place of comfort and safety and an arrangement that we would
wish to retain for the rest of our life.  For others this becomes increasingly
difficult to maintain.  When others provide the resources for life they want to
control the decisions that we make.  This loss of autonomy creates a great deal
of anger and conflict.


## Moment of Decision

There comes a point in every person's life, when it becomes unacceptable to have
other people making decisions for me.  This realization of the need for
independence is strong enough to provide the motivation to break free.  
Committing to the battle for independence replaces the desire for the comfort
and safety of adolescence.  It is simply not an option to let others control my
life.  I will do what it takes to become successful or die trying.

The moment of clarity is the beginning of the journey of adulthood. Succeeding
at the journey will likely take another twenty years.  But I believe that a
person becomes an adult when they commit themselves to the difficult climb
toward independence and taking responsibility for themselves and others.

When this happens depends on the life circumstances  and personality of each
person. Some people can delay adulthood well into their thirties or forties,
while others cross this threshold early in their teens. In general, hardship in
childhood forces a younger adulthood.  Keep in mind that it is the mental
attitude of taking responsibility that makes one an adult, not  success in
living out the life.


## Family Life

Early adulthood is concerned with two main arenas: Work and Family.  Both of
these areas have many choices with lifelong implications.  Decisions that are
made about marriage and kids will determine the nature of the rest of our lives.
Some decision are irrevocable, while others are minor and can be changed later.

Our concepts about sexuality and identity greatly affect the decisions in ways
that we are often unaware of.   We bring lots of baggage from our family of
origin into the life that we are trying to create.   Many of us struggle to
overcome bad decisions that we have made early in our adult years.  Often we
simply lacked the maturity to think clearly until choices has been made.

It does not matter whether you would make the same choices again or if you
regret the decisions that were made.  There is no value in dreaming about time
travel and "what if" scenarios.  What's done is done.  Now, how do you move
forward.

There is value in reviewing the past decisions that are  reversible.  Most of
the choices that we make in life have a small impact.  This lets us change most
of the aspects of life if we see a better way.  This is especially true in
relationships.  Most broken relationships can be repaired and all relationships
can be improved.   It just requires the motivation and maturity to try.


## Work Life

Another key aspect of the adult journey is developing a career path.  Many new
adults feel tremendous pressure to predict what their career path will be.  This
is rarely possible and there is very little value in creating a illusion of
confidence.

Early in your adult journey you need to develop an understanding of what your
strengths and limitations are on a personal level.  This will set the guidance
for the potential career paths that you would consider.  Each career will have
training requirements that will qualify you to get a job in that arena.

Skills give you the ability to contribute to the goals of others.   People will
hire you to do work when you prove that you are capable of adding value to their
business.  Learning the required skills and finding an opportunity to use them
is an extremely difficult undertaking for most people.

Young adults face many years of trial and error before things begin to click. 
Committing to the journey is essential and flexibility and resilience are the
keys to pushing through to success.


## Battle for independence

The struggle is the journey and the road is not easy.  But at the end lies true
happiness and joy. Creating a meaningful work life and a meaningful family life
is the heart of the American Dream.   We eventually learn to overcome the
obstacles that prevent us from success and find out what works for us.

At this time of life the pressures and demand of others are limitless.  Our
ability to thrive depends on our capability of prioritizing and balancing the
needs of others with our own internal needs.  This is easier said than done.  It
is also a constantly moving target with the world in motion around us.

As we reach the breaking point, we must step back and simplify our lifestyle. 
This usually involves saying "No" to more things in order to create margin in
our life.

