# God's Kingdom vs. Human Ways

As someone who has dedicated my life to teaching about discipleship and the path to following God, I
feel it is important to highlight the profound differences between the ways of God's kingdom and
the ways of humans. While some may view these differences as subtle and requiring great
discernment, I believe that the separation between the two is blatantly obvious. In this article, I
aim to shed light on these key differences and help us understand how we can embrace God's way in
our own lives.


The differences between God's way and the human way are fundamental and stark. By recognizing and
understanding these differences, we can strive to align our lives more closely with God's kingdom.
Embracing humility, placing our trust in God, fostering hope, and practicing love are central to
living out God's way in our own lives. It is my hope that through this understanding, we can all
work towards creating a world that reflects the values and principles of God's kingdom.


## The Human Way: Power and Control

One of the defining characteristics of the human way is the desire for power and control over
others. We see this in all aspects of our societies, especially in the operations of governments.
While this power may start off subtle, it is ultimately based on the threat of violence and the
punishment of lawbreakers. The intention behind this control may be to serve the common good, but
it often ends up protecting the interests of those in power.

## God's Way: Humility

In stark contrast, God's way is characterized by humility. Our human nature is fueled by pride,
causing us to not only want to get our own way but also to dominate others. We form groups, whether
it be families, tribes, or nations, with the aim of achieving power over others. Sadly, violence
becomes a pervasive part of our societies as a result.

Our lack of humility feeds our desire to win at the expense of others. This makes us susceptible to
manipulation and allows us to do evil things while convincing ourselves that they are good. In our
quest to protect our own interests, we often attack and vilify those we perceive as threats.

It is important to recognize that while we may not set out to do evil, our desire to get our way and
preserve our way of life can lead us to justify the means by the ends. This justification has been
used throughout history to promote even the most horrific acts as just wars aimed at creating a
better world.

## Faith: Trusting in God

Our actions are a reflection of our beliefs and values, and for many, the foundation of their lives
lies in trust. Some place their trust in wealth or power, believing that these possessions will
provide them with a good life. Others believe that if they can gain control over the government,
they can secure a favorable outcome for themselves.

Personally, I desire good leaders who can serve the people. However, I also acknowledge that power
has a tendency to corrupt. As leaders gain more and more power, their desire to dominate their
enemies often follows. This is an inevitable trajectory in all human governments, as the powerful
seek to increase their power even further.

Different forms of government vary in their approach to power-sharing. Some seek to distribute the
benefits of power among many, while others concentrate it in the hands of a few. Therefore, the
quality of our society can be measured by the extent to which everyone prospers.

As God's people, we should strive to influence our leaders while recognizing that no form of
government can be fully trusted to protect everyone. We can work towards building a more equitable
world, but we must also understand that our impact is limited. Our trust in God allows us to find
contentment in the life we have and release our desire to control what is beyond our reach.

## Hope: Believing in a Better Life

Hope is the belief that a better life is possible for us. We all have fears about the future,
fearing that it will bring pain and misery. The media, both news and social, often exploit these
fears, using them to manipulate our emotions. Some have even weaponized these channels to further
their own goals by playing on our fears.

We are all susceptible to conscious manipulation and a natural tendency to imagine the worst.
Therefore, it is crucial that we guard against the call to fear. We need to be mindful of the
information we expose our minds to and develop our own personal policy for consuming information.

Our mental and emotional well-being is greatly influenced by what we believe. Our biology
predisposes us to believe in the worst and live in a constant state of threat response. Religious
and political leaders have learned to exploit our fear in order to control the masses and achieve
their own goals. It is important to be aware of this dynamic and actively oppose it.

## Love: Building Connection

Every one of us has a fundamental need to feel loved. Our biology is wired to require love and
connection. In society, whether it be within a family, tribe, nation, company, school, church,
religion, or culture, we create a strong sense of identity. This identity builds a connection
between us that can either be profoundly nurturing and life-giving or entirely destructive.

Every social community fosters an "us vs. them" mentality. We establish rules and boundaries to
separate "us" from "them." We learn to trust "us" and fear "them." Even within families, schools,
companies, and states, this dynamic persists.

When nations go to war, their leaders systematically demonize the enemy to justify the act of
killing them as a means to create a better world. Unfortunately, this dynamic is present at all
levels of community.

Loving our own community is undoubtedly important, but hating others is clearly against the will of
God. It does not matter whether the person spreading hate is a religious or political leader; their
words do not align with the voice of God. True leaders guided by God will always advocate for love
and compassion towards others, regardless of who they are.
