# Stages of Writing

Creating non-fiction content does not happen in a single step.  Instead the
materials develop through a series of stages that are quite distinct.  This
maturing process allows the ideas to be crafted and molded.  Each stage has a
unique set of goals and criteria that must be met in order to more to the next
phase.


## Capture - headlines & outlines

The concepts must be captured while they are fresh.  New ideas are often
fleeting and can be easily lost if not tended properly.  The capture process
begins with recording an idea for a great article as a headline.  This should
provide a hook to a potential reader and communicate the big idea.  Maintaining
a comprehensive inventory of interesting articles to write in the first step to
creating a standard process for sustainable writing.

This list of headlines should be reviewed regularly to produce the topic of the
next article to be developed.  Identify the four major points that should be
discussed in your article.  Now add further details to each of the main topics
you selected.  Build an outline that captures all of these decisions.  I call
this structure a 4x4 outline (four main topics with four subtopics each).


## Organize - new article drafts

The next phase of development is to write prose for the article of interest.  By
having the outline as a guide you can turn each bullet into a sentence or
paragraph.  The construction of the outline is where you think through what you
want to say; the writing of prose is where you decide how to best say it.

A 4x4 outline will define twenty-one topics.  This would be converted to
sentences for a short article (250 words), or into paragraphs for a long article
(1000-1500 words).  A chapter in a book can be created by repeating this same
process of creating an outline first, and then writing detailed prose that
matches it.


## Develop - articles being edited

Now that you have a draft it must be refined and perfected.  Let your draft sit
for a while before trying to edit it.  Your draft was written when you were in a
certain state of mind.  A week later what you once thought clever might appear
ridiculous. Aging the content is a great way to have a fresh set of eyes (even
when they are the original author's).

The first reading should be for concepts.  Are the big ideas there?  Is the
description compelling?  Are the arguments well crafted and balanced?  Think of
your greatest critic.  What would they say about what you wrote?  Consider
completely rewriting anything that appears weak.

The later drafts are to address more subtle flaws in your writing.  Grammar,
spelling, voice, tense, and style are all important to get right to avoid
derailing your readers.  Find a trusted friend to give you feedback.  For more
formal situations you might want to hire an editor to formally proof your work.


## Share - articles published

Now you are ready to "Go Public".  A blog is a great way to share your material.
A short blog post (of 100 words) is within the attention-span of most people.  A
longer article of 1000 words could be broken into smaller posting and linked
together.  This gives your readers the benefit of either being able to quickly
digest the small bit or dig deeper if they want more.

Another great way to share is to post content on Facebook or LinkedIn.  Start by
posting the content on your blog, then post an excerpt on social media that
contains a link to the blog article.  This allows readers to skim but read
further if they are interested.


