

### Create


The most powerful drive in my life has always been the desire to create. Building software, writing, and teaching are all manifestation of this underlying desire.  

- An application prototype
- A 1000-word article
- A slide deck for lesson

My primary joy derives from creating something from concept to embodiment.  Of course this is enhanced by someone else acknowledging the value of what was produced.


### Connect


I find great joy in forming deep relationships with people I trust.  I have several lifelong friends who I share everything with.  But Stacie carried the full load of my relational needs. She was my PERSON, but now she is gone.

I must begin to reach out to those I trust and strengthen connection with them.  There is no one person that will be able to meet that need.  It will probably take five close friends to fill the gaping whole.

Shallow relationships have no value to me and I run from forced intimacy.  Being somewhat autistic, I find it difficult to conform to social norms, since it is hard for me to understand the emotions of others.  A party is the worst social setting for me.  I prefer one-on-one interactions.


### Learn


From childhood I have been a voracious reader.  My whole career has been on the leading edge of technology. But the past few years my focus has shifted to try to understand humans.  Psychology, history, politics, economics, and spirituality.  Why is the world so messed up?  Is there anything we can do to make it better?

Books are my primary source of learning.  Starting this last years I have been spending much of my time learning with the benefit of an AI research assistant.  It allows me to digest an entire book in a hour and learn a significant amount about a new topic in a day.

Being officially retired for the first time, I now have the luxury of spending as much time as I want learning whatever I choose.  No one is placing any demands on my time now.  This is indeed a great source of joy.


### Enjoy


Life can be really hard at times.  I strive to find the gems in the gravel. My nature I am drawn to what is wrong.  This can pull me into a pit of despair if I let it.

Each day I am looking for those beautiful moments that are worth celebrating. A fond memory, a kind word, laughing with my grandkids, and the beauty of nature.  These are gift to me.  I believe that every good gift comes from God, and I receive it as such.

Living in the moment and being fully awake and aware is a way to harvest joy.  We bring in the wheat and reject the weeds.  This is a choice.

