# Day 50 - What Do I Control?

Years ago, I had a revelation about control and its impact on my emotional well-being. The Serenity
Prayer from AA hung on my wall, serving as a constant reminder of its wisdom: "Courage to change
what I can and acceptance for the rest." Reflecting on this prayer, I realized that the key to
personal health lies in understanding what I control and what I don't.

## I control me

I came to the realization that there are only four things I have absolute control over: what I do,
say, think, and feel. While I can influence circumstances, the outcomes are ultimately beyond my
control. Taking responsibility for my actions, words, thoughts, and emotions is crucial. It's a
difficult task that many people avoid, attributing their problems to external factors. When I
control myself, I live authentically and build resilience to face hardships.

## I don't control others

As a self-proclaimed control freak, accepting that I can't control others was a challenging yet
liberating realization. I spent years trying to influence and change those around me, believing it
was my duty to "fix" them. However, as I entered my sixties, I understood the futility of this
mindset. The world is flawed, and everyone is imperfect. It's not my responsibility to fix others;
my focus should be on controlling my actions, words, thoughts, and emotions.

## Accepting reality

Accepting the things I cannot change and focusing on what I can control has brought me peace. The
events of 2020, from the pandemic to social upheavals, reinforced the importance of accepting
reality. Understanding that I am not responsible for fixing the world or others has been freeing.
Instead, I channel my energy into managing my own life and responses to external events.

## Finding serenity

Embracing the Serenity Prayer's message to accept what I cannot change, change what I can, and
discern between the two has been transformative. It's a journey towards inner peace and resilience.
By focusing on controlling myself and letting go of the need to control others, I've found a sense
of serenity amidst life's chaos. 

## Closing thoughts

Control is a powerful force that impacts our emotional well-being and relationships. Understanding
what we control (ourselves) and what we don't (others) is essential for personal growth and
happiness. By accepting reality, taking responsibility for our actions, and letting go of the
desire to control external factors, we can lead a more fulfilling and harmonious life.

I have found that the issue of control is the single largest indicator and contributor to my emotional
health and maturity.  How I grapple with this will determine my well-being in every area of life.

