# 1. Building with Carbon. Why Carbon? Nutrients and Vitamins

Welcome to a thrilling journey through the world of cell biology! This book will guide you through
the complex layers of biology, starting from the atomic level all the way up to the fascinating,
interconnected systems that make up the human body. Our goal is to help you understand the
intricate workings of life by using a framework of building blocks—similar to Legos—and abstraction
principles.

Much like the way individual Lego pieces click together through a shared interface, biological
building blocks can be combined to create an array of new capabilities. By using abstraction, we
can construct larger and more complex structures from simpler components. This powerful concept is
what allows life to emerge from non-living things and computers to "think" despite being made from
organized sand. In essence, it's the magic that occurs when many simple components work together in
an organized fashion to create something more complex.

At the foundation of our journey lies carbon, the first building block that forms the basis for all
life on Earth. Carbon is unique in its ability to bond with four other atoms, giving it
unparalleled versatility in forming complex molecules. This capability enables carbon to create
stable structures like chains, rings, and branches, providing a variety of options for assembling
the building blocks of life. Furthermore, carbon's ability to form double bonds adds to its
stability and versatility. An added bonus is that carbon remains semi-stable at room temperature,
unlike metals, which would require too much heat to support life as we know it.

So why is carbon so crucial to life? Its unique bonding capabilities allow it to form the backbone
of countless organic molecules, including carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids. These
molecules are essential for the structure and function of all living organisms. In addition, carbon
serves as a critical component of various nutrients and vitamins, which play vital roles in the
cellular processes that keep life humming along.

In conclusion, carbon is the foundational building block of life and the first step in our ladder of
abstraction. As we continue our journey through this book, we'll explore even more building blocks,
each with increasingly complex capabilities, ultimately unveiling the awe-inspiring intricacies of
life itself. Get ready to embark on a captivating adventure that bridges the worlds of biology and
engineering, unlocking the secrets of life from the ground up.


## Lego Pieces

## Carbon Atoms

## Uniqueness of Carbon 

## Building Blocks of Life


