## Project 1 - Setup Development Tools


### Overview

Setup all of the development tools on your local computer.

**Demonstrated Skills**

* Setup Github repo
* Setup develop tools (VS Code, Git, Python/Django)


**Project Goals**

Setup a git repository stored at Github that will be used for all the code you
will write for BACS 350. Your code repository will be forked from

    https://github.com/Mark-Seaman/PythonWebApps

and named

    https://github.com/your-name/PythonWebApps


**User Stories**

* Install a new version of Python 3.10 to use for building Django apps
* Setup Virtual Environment for Python Packages
* Install Django library in Virtual Environment
* Setup your Github repo with code from "Mark-Seaman/PythonWebApps"
* Install Visual Studio Code
* Clone repo with Visual Studio Code


### Requirements

**Business Requirements**

* You have created and debugged a Django application with your Profile 
* Your page displays your photo

**Technical Requirements**

* Your repo is forked from Mark-Seaman/PythonWebApps
* Your repo contains your modified app code
* Project code is located at "https://github.com/your-name/PythonWebApps/project/01/"



### Step 1 - Install Python Visual Code

Go to Visual Studio Code at https://code.visualstudio.com/

Download and install on your machine

Run Visual Studio

Install extension for Python in Visual Studio Code


### Step 2 - Create Github Repo

Setup a git repository stored at Github that will be used for all the code you
will write for BACS 350. All grading will be done by examining the code in this
course repo.

* Visit the Github website at https://github.com
* Select a name that will be your permanent Github user name
* Sign up for a free account at Github
* Login to your account
* Create a Git Repo
* Use the Github website to create code repositories for each project
* Create a git repository for this class
* Build a repo named **PythonWebApps**
* Example:  
    * User:  **Mark-Seaman**
    * Github URL: **https://github.com/Mark-Seaman/PythonWebApps**
* Use a .gitignore file for **"Python"**
* Test .gitignore at the top of your repo
* Make sure that the file has lots of content to avoid adding Python temp files
to the Git repo.


### Step 3 - Clone Your Git Repo

* Run Visual Studio Code
* If you are missing git, install it from "https://git-scm.com/downloads".
* Clone repo from Github
* Set permissions to access Github account from VS Code


### Step 4 - Install Python 3

Install Python 3.10 from Python.org

Setup virtual env

    $ python -m venv venv

    $ source venv/bin/activate      # On Mac
    $ source venv/Scripts/activate  # On Windows

Installing Python Packages

    $ pip install django


### Step 5 - Test Your Project 

Create the database

    $ python manage.py migrate

Run the web server

    $ python manage.py runserver
Browse to the web page at **http://localhost:8000**

Change the photo at "project/01/static/me.jpg" and text at 
"demo/01/ProfileApp/templates/profile.html"

Refresh the browser.


### Step 6 - Commit and Push Code

Commit your code from a terminal window

Add source code to the index for Git.  This will stage the changes to be committed.  The next step
is to commit the changes into your local repository with the commit message to say what you did.
Then you need to push all of the code changes to the remote repo at Github.

    $ git add .

    $ git commit -m 'Initial application'

    $ git push
    
