## Project 3 - Superhero Pages


### Overview
During this project, you will create an application that has four pages.
The first page will contain text and links to the other three pages. The
other pages will contain profiles of your favorite superheroes. It will
show the strengths and weaknesses of the hero along with a profile photo.
The links within the pages allow you to move easily between all pages.


**Demonstrated Skills**

* Create an app from scratch
* Build views using templates
* Create links that pass data with the URL
* Display static images in your app
* Deploy code to your server


**User Stories**

* Pages use CSS to present a nice appearance
* List of heroes on your site with links to pages
* Profile page for each hero


### Requirements

**Business Requirements**

* Your repo contains all of your code
* Your server is hosted at Digital Ocean
* You have created and debugged a Django application
* Your code contains hero profiles with images

**Technical Requirements**

* Bootstrap CSS with custom fonts, background color, and spacing
* Templates:  heroes.html, hero1.html, hero2.html, hero3.html
* Views: HeroListView, HeroDetailView
* Three of your favorite superheroes
* Captured an **app.yaml** file for your config
* Create a Static Server to hold images



### Step 1 - Create and deploy a Django App
* Build all code locally
* Commit to Github repo
* Create a new app at Digital Ocean (you can destroy the old one or overwrite it)
* Build and deploy a blank app before you create the logic for the real app


### Step 2 - Create views with an HTML template
* Build the HTML
* Build the views
* Hook up the URLs
* Use a dictionary to hold the data for all views
* Pass data from URL to view
* Pass data from view to template


### Step 3 - Add images
* Find images and put them in "static/images"
* Configure static server


### Step 4 - Test the pages

runserver

browse to localhost:8000

    Works
    
        http://127.0.0.1:8000/hero/hulk
        
        http://127.0.0.1:8000/hero/black_widow
        
    Doesn't Work
        
        http://127.0.0.1:8000/hero/iron_man
        
        http://127.0.0.1:8000/hero
        
        http://127.0.0.1:8000
        

Each view loads a static image of the superhero.

A static server must be configured to load the photos.



### Step 5 - Run Visual Studio Debugger

Configure debugger within Visual Studio Code.

.vscode/launch.json

    {
        // Use IntelliSense to learn about possible attributes.
        // Hover to view descriptions of existing attributes.
        // For more information, visit: https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=830387
        "version": "0.2.0",
        "configurations": [
            {
                "name": "Python: Django",
                "type": "python",
                "request": "launch",
                "program": "manage.py",
                "cwd": "${workspaceFolder}/03/Superhero",
                "args": [
                    "runserver"
                ],
                "django": true,
                "justMyCode": true
            }
        ]
    }

To run the code do the following steps.

* Start Visual Studio
* Open "03/Superhero"
* Run menu, Start Debugging
* Browse to http://127.0.0.1:8000/

Visit all views for testing.
