## Project 4 - Superhero Profiles


### Overview

Create an application that uses visual inheritance to remove all of the code duplications. Each page
will inherit and extend a base template. All pages will only contain code that is unique to the
page and all common code will be moved into the base template.

A dictionary will be used in the view to hold the specific details for each
hero. When a particular URL is selected the data for that hero is sent into
the view template.  

You will have five heroes listed on your site. 
The index page will present a list of links to the
other five pages. The other pages will contain a profile of your favorite
superheroes. It will show the strengths and weaknesses of the hero along with a
profile photo. The links within the pages allow you to move easily between all
pages.


**Demonstrated Skills**

* Create an app from scratch
* Build views using a common theme
* Create links that pass data with the URL
* Display static images in your app
* Use a dictionary to provide data to your views
* Deploy code to your server


**User Stories**

* Pages all share a common theme
* Pages use CSS to present a nice appearance
* List of heroes on your site with links to pages
* Profile page for each hero


### Requirements

**Business Requirements**

* Your repo contains all of your code
* Your server is hosted at Digital Ocean
* You have created and debugged a Django application with Hero Profiles
* Hero List View
    * For default URL "/" display a list of the superheroes
* Hero Detail View
    * Create a unique page for each superhero
    * Show Name, Image, Strengths, Weaknesses
    * Create a nicely styled set of pages similar to my profile page

**Technical Requirements**

* You must use a "theme.html" base template for all pages
* Include Bootstrap CSS on each page (fonts, background color, spacing)
* Templates:  heroes.html, hero.html
* Views: HeroListView, HeroDetailView
* Three of your favorite heroes
* Captured an **app.yaml** file for your config
* Create a Static Server to hold images



### Step 1 - Create a new Django project

* startproject Superhero
* startapp hero
* Build HTML template "index.html"
* Set a title "Superhero News"
* Debug URL route for '/'
* Commit to your Github repo


### Step 2 - Create Superhero Pages

* Build a view that takes a "hero" argument and displays the name
* Build an URL route that matches "hero/hero-name" and calls your view


### Step 3 - Superhero Index

* Add a list of links to invoke your hero page
* Select five superheroes to show


### Step 4 - Create Images 

* Create images that match your five selected heroes
* Add an image to your view for "{{ hero }}.jpg" to display an image
* Debug your application code until photos display
* Commit to your Github repo
* Deploy at Digital Ocean


### Step 5 - Create Superhero Theme

* Create an HTML template "superhero_theme.html"
* Add a bootstrap CSS and custom CSS to this template
* Add a "{% block content %}" section to the template
* Make index.html and hero.html use "{% extends 'superhero_theme.html' %}"
* Debug the view inheritance
* Give your pages some cool style


### Step 6 - Deploy and Test

* Update the "config/app.yaml" from Project 3.
* Upload it to Digital Ocean to deploy your new project.
* Wait for the build to complete
* Test the pages
