## Project 7 - User Authentication

### Overview

Build a Django application that has registered users. All users can view the
data in the app but must be logged in to modify the records.

This app has unique user accounts for authors.  Every data object is tied to a
specific author. Each author is able to log in to create news articles
or modify existing ones.

New users can register directly on the website to get a user login.  The Author
records in the database use the built-in data models and views for the Users.
Any author can read all articles but only the author of an article can modify
the contents.

A custom registration form and login form conform to the style of the
application by extending "theme.html".


**Demonstrated Skills**

* Create an app with a database
* Allow users to create new accounts
* Verify the login before letting users modify data
* Display login status on each page
* Menu to navigate between pages


**User Stories**

* User Registration
* User Login/Logout
* Restrict access
* Automatic redirects
* Display user status
* Navbar


### Requirements

**Business Requirements**

* Server is hosted at Digital Ocean
* Full user registration system
* Superhero edit capability requires login

**Technical Requirements**

* Superhero Database with at least five superheroes
* Superhero Data Model
    * name, identity, description, strength, weakness, image
    * Set default keyword argument in new fields added
* Superhero Custom Views
    * List
    * Detail
    * Add
    * Edit
    * Delete
* Views Stylesheet
    * View inheritance
    * CSS



### Step 1 - Create a new Django project
* The default view should contain a list of links to superheroes
* An add button will let users add a new record


### Step 2 - Data Views

Support all five views without restriction

* ListView
* DetailView
* CreateView
* UpdateView
* DeleteView

### Step 3 - User Registration

Add a registration form based on the demo code.
Allow users to sign up for an account.


### Step 4 - User Login/Logout

Add a login form based on the demo code.
Allow users to log in to their accounts.


### Step 5 - User Authorization

Require that users be logged in to modify the records.  Use the LoginMixin
to restrict access to certain views.


### Step 6 - User Status

Add a NavBar to your app.  Display the login status on the NavBar.  Allow
the user to log in, log out, sign up, and show the user's name.

