## Project 13 - Website Builder 


### Overview

Build a static website that will host reports for each superhero listed in your app. Create a
page for each superhero. Add a stylesheet to give your pages a professional look. Your pages
should contain photos.  

Implement a command script to build the static website from data in the app. Commit your static
website to the Github repository. Deploy the static website on Digital Ocean without deploying 
the Django app.


**Demonstrated Skills**

* Convert dynamic pages to HTML
* Deploy a static website
* Generate report pages


**User Stories**

* Build a static website
* Create reports from data records
* Render pages as HTML files


### Requirements

**Business Requirements**

* A static website exists on Digital Ocean
* Reports for each Superhero record
* Show an index of the reports on each page
* Professional layout and style
* Create a static website showing Profile, Messages, Articles, and a Photo Album for each hero


**Technical Requirements**

* Images appear on pages
* Running the command script automatically generates the website
* Stylesheet is used
* Design patterns are used throughout the code
- Generate reports on superheroes
- Create HTML, CSS, JS, and Images from your app

---

## Project 13 - Views Builder

### Overview

Add support for Notes to your Superhero app. Create all of the standard views by running a
code generator.

Users should be able to register themselves and start creating notes. Guarantee that only logged-in
users can modify the notes while all users can see the notes.


**Demonstrated Skills**

* Data views code generation
* Building standard views
* Test-Driven Development


**User Stories**

* Generate data views automatically
* Tests for Data and Views
* Editable notes


### Requirements

**Business Requirements**

* Your Superhero App supports notes that can be edited
* Build standard views for a new data type 

**Technical Requirements**

- Generator for Data Model Views from Data Models to Standard Views
- Create Notes views for the app
- Data Models - nouns
    - Superhero
    - Article
    - Photo
    - Notes
- Views - verbs
    - List
    - Detail
    - Create
    - Update
    - Delete
- Tests for Data and Views

