Expand this outline of Chapter 4 into 1000 words using the snowflake method. Use an active, educational and engaging voice. 
Do not write conclusion statements. 
Place all outputs in a markdown formatted code block.


### 4. Proteins, Folding, and Protein Complexes
   - Proteins: molecular machinery of life
     * [get students hyped to learn about proteins]
     * [how many proteins are there anyways?]
   - Amino acids as the building blocks of proteins
     * [call back to abstraction principles]
     * any order means most amino acid sequences have no function
   - Protein folding and its importance
     * AA order determines fold
     * fold determines function
   - Protein-protein interactions and complexes
     * P-P interaction are the next level of vocab synthesis
     * One protein, many complexes
     * Complexes gain and lose parts as regulation

--------

This part is garbage.
"Welcome to the world of proteins, the molecular machinery of life that is responsible for carrying out countless essential functions in living organisms. Prepare to be amazed by the incredible diversity, versatility, and complexity of proteins, which are the key players in almost every biological process."

To get excited about proteins:
* Pull examples from XVIVO, inner life of the cell
* List specific examples of the diversity of different things proteins can do. Use real world analogs and don't get lost in jargon.
* Include this at the beginning: "Combinatorics means each new level of abstraction has exponentially more building blocks. Counterintuitively, the protein level is where we reach peak complexity. After this, compartmentalization begins to hide the layers of complexity until we reach the relatively simple human body. The world of proteins has more moving parts than an entire metropolitan area."

---

