# Purpose of the Church

## What is the Church?

The church is a visible representation of God's presence on earth.  It
illustrates the authority of God in human life.  The Bible uses the term,
"Kingdom of God", to contrast this with the authority of human empires.   

The church is the community of God's followers.  It is a human organization that
spans all cultures that is built around a common understanding of the Gospel. 
This belief adheres to the  Nicene Creed, which has been the basis of our faith
for the last 1700 years.

The church is a human organization made by humans for humans.  This means that
it is far from perfect. When God is directing the church his authority is in
charge (and his will is done).  But there are often times when the people in
charge reject God's will in order to meet their own selfish goals.

## Kingdom Conflicts

This war between two kingdoms occurs in every human arena, throughout our
private lives, schools, businesses, government, communities, and even the
church.   The human conflict over whether to pursue God's will or the selfish
goals of people rages at every turn. Some decisions are made in favor of God's
will, while many are made to gain more power and wealth for the people involved.
 
The war exists in every arena but takes on a special meaning in the church. 
Within the church there is an attempt to pursue the human goals while claiming
to act with the authority of God.   This is clearly a deception and it
undermines the legitimacy of the church itself. As leaders seek wealth and power
they demonstrate that they are not pursuing the will of God.

When the church is following God it is the greatest hope for humanity because it
is "God with us". But when it is subverted and corrupted it is the single
biggest threat to our survival, because it threatens God's will in the earth.  A
corrupt church in the hands of evil men is the worst thing that could happen to
humans.


## Natural Conflict

There is a part of us that wants to pursue God's will, but there is also a part
that doesn't.  We will do almost anything to get our way. This is true in both
our private lives and our public lives as we interact with others.

There is a fundamental conflict between the will of God (God's kingdom) and the
will of humans (kingdom of self).  This conflict is played out daily in both our
public church lives and in our private spiritual lives. There is constant
tension between our will and the God's will (our kingdom and God's) over who is
in charge of our choices.  Is it any surprise that there is a great deal of
conflict in the church?

Sin is moving from wholeness to corruption and is based on rebellion to asset
our will.  A small amount of sin has a dramatic influence like yeast in a loaf
of bread or arsenic in a cup of coffee.  Sin is not the bad behavior, but the
bad deeds are the result of sin.   Sin is the willful rebellion against the will
of God and leads to harmful actions.

When God's will is done then transformation occurs.  Both our private and public
lives are transformed by God's presence. Transformation is moving from
corruption to wholeness and is based on yielding to God's will.  Redemption
happens by transformation on the inside leading to changed behavior on the
outside.  If our behavior is not changing them perhaps there is no
transformation or redemption taking place. 


## The Bride of Christ

In the New Testament the church is characterized by the image of a bride.   This
speaks to the tremendous love and affection that Jesus has for his people, like
what a groom would have for his bride.   All of the flaws and corruption and
ugliness are not visible to the the groom.  Instead he sees the perfect life
that could be lived and the ideal woman that will bring him ultimate joy.  This
is how the resurrected king sees his people.

Jesus told his disciples that he would put his Spirit within them to instruct
and guide them daily.  While the person of Jesus was God's visible presence for
the purpose of living a sinless human life, God's presence lives in his people
today through the Spirit.  This is a profound mystery, that the Spirit of God
lives within us to empower, guide, and instruct us in real time.

The Spirit lives within each of us individually and when we gather together, he
makes his presence known.   When God's people gather we are the church.  God's
kingdom authority is demonstrated in the roles of Discipleship, Serving,
Community, and Worship.  When these areas are submitted to the will of the
Spirit then we can say that the kingdom of God has been demonstrated.


## Four goals of faith

Faith involves our private spirituality and our public expression of faith in
the church.  True faith touches on many areas of our lives and helps us learn
how to live according to God's will.  There are several different aspects that
collectively teach us to follow God.  These can be thought about as the goals of
faith or arenas that must be addressed.

- Discipleship - Teach truth
- Service - Mission to improve the world
- Community - Family  where we learn to love others
- Worship - Prayer and experience God's Spirit

Each goal has both a public and private expression.  The quality of our private
spirituality is determined by how well we embrace each of these areas.

- Discipleship - Learning and growing and applying that truth in our daily lives.
- Service - Caring for others in need and serving goals that our beyond our goals.
- Community - Family  is where we learn to love others first; then we move beyond.
- Worship - Daily prayer and experience God's Spirit.


## What is the purpose of the church?

The church is the public expression of faith while spirituality is the private
expression of faith. The church is the demonstration by God's people of what his
will is for all humans.   This has four main parts.

- Discipleship - The teaching of people the truth about how to live a life that 
is fully yielded to God starts with evangelism.   From the hardened pagan to the 
righteous martyr all people must be trained in the ways of God.  This involves a 
process of transformation that requires a lifetime.  Disciples are always 
learning and growing.
- Service - This world is seriously broken in so many ways.  God's people have 
been given a mission to care for the needs of others. This must be carried out 
through acts of Compassion, Justice, and Humility while putting the needs of 
others in front of our own.
- Community - God's people must be united in the desire to accomplish God's 
will. The true church is characterized by love for one another and for those 
who are far from God. Without this love there is no real demonstration of the 
will of God.
- Worship - God's people are meant to experience him.  Worship has many 
different expressions and aspects:
    - Prayer
    - Repentance & confession
    - Adoration
    - Appreciation & thanksgiving
    - Music
    - Art and drama
    - Miracles & supernatural experiences

As God's people gather together, these activities should be clearly visible.  
Everything else should take a back seat.  As I look at the church in America I
see many of these element missing. That is a sign that we are missing out on
experiencing the kingdom of God and the freedom that it brings.

So far we have looked at the nature of the true church.    This is the people of
God gathered together to experience the will of God.   But this leads us to the
burning question ... Is God's will always accomplished?

