# Learning to Collaborate


## Desire to Collaborate

I feel like my efforts at collaboration are the tentative steps of a toddler.  I have a fundamental
desire to connect more deeply with others, but lack the structure in which to do so effectively.

I imagine a time when I look forward to interacting with others and sharing ideas.  I long for deep
collaboration and intimate conversations with people I trust. It is my desire to build lasting
relationships with my family, church community, and work colleagues.


## Building Trust

My main objective is to have meaningful conversations that build trust. Many of my interactions
erode trust, and eliminate my desire to keep the interaction going.  I want to replace these
relationships without trust with ones that I bring joy.

Relationships without trust are painful to me and I have little desire to relate to those out of a
sense of duty or obligation. Polite formality is how I handle these interactions and I admit that
there is no hope for anything better.

True trust requires that I am confident in the other person's

- **Competence** - ability to do the thing they say they will do
- **Character** - the virtues that define their maturity
- **Caring** - how they care about my needs compared to their own


## Social Networking

Modern communication tools provide both new challenges and new opportunities to connect emotionally
with others.  I am working to develop guidelines for healthy use of social media.  Being on the
autistic spectrum make communications more difficult for me that most people. But developing
practices of regular healthy interactions can improve my overall happiness.

I want to maintain lightweight contact with my family, church, and colleagues every day.  One of the
mental attitudes that I must overcome is the tendency to over-communicate or not communicate at
all.  Social Network channels are ideal for staying connected, which lays the groundwork for
intimate conversations.

Each person has a preferred channel of communication.  Unfortunately these are often different than
mine.  I must figure out those I most want to communicate with and service the inbox for their
channel.


## Context for Collaboration

Some interactions naturally happen through events that put us together.  Others happen only by
choosing to make an effort to meet.  The pandemic and social fragmentation has accelerated a trend
toward social isolation.  I naturally interact with the members of my extended family (our tribe of
ten) with weekly dinners together.  The Sunday church meeting is the only other regular contact
that I have with other humans.

To fill this social void requires creating new ways to meet up with others.  This is very difficult
in the current social climate of mistrust.  It requires a lot of effort to find a context where new
relationships can thrive.  I am working on ways to develop new friendships and and reconnect with
old friends.  This is an ongoing investment in time and energy.
