# Confessions

## My Life in Review

I have always been successful. Throughout my life I have been able to accomplish many things and
gain lots of recognition.  I am proud of all that I have achieved and that is really the problem. I
have bought into the myth of the self-made man and believed that I can take credit for all the good
things in my life.

In my honest moments, though I understand that this is a lie.  Most of what I have benefited from
was not of my own making.  The majority of my life circumstances were set in motion by the time of
my birth. My race, gender, nationality, time and place in history and geography, and the society
that I grew up in.

I had little choice in who my parents were and yet this is the dominant factor in how my life has
developed.  My parents were responsible for my genetic code that affects how I think and act.  And
the culture has given me a worldview that I can't even begin to understand.

So is my whole life a matter of fate?  Do the choices I make daily have any real importance?  I
believe that our choices profoundly affect our ultimate destiny.  At birth we are given certain
opportunities, but these can easily be squandered.  To achieve our destiny we must make the most of
the unique opportunities that are available to us.


## The Problem of Control

The greatest challenge I have ever faced is learning what I control and what I can't.  This lies at
the heart of all my greatest failures and successes.

What do I control?  I control what I Do, Say, Think, and Feel.    I do not control what others Do,
Say, Think, and Feel.   The ramifications of this are enormous.

I must control myself.  I am responsible for how I act and also for my thought life and emotional
health.  If I fail to take responsibility for myself then I blame others for all of the dysfunction
in my life.  By not acting on things that are under my control I will squander my destiny and fall
far short of my potential.

I cannot control others.  This is the second major problem. I often believe that am responsible for
others.  I use judgement and criticism to control and manipulate other people.  When my attempts
fail I spiral into anger.  Eventually these attitudes consume my mental, emotional, and spiritual
health. I become obsessed with controlling others in my life and also the world in general. This
also leads to a squandered destiny.

Economics, politics, social reform, church leadership, education, healthcare, government, racial
reconciliation, war, famine, disease, and poverty are real concerns of everyday life.  I have a
part to play in each of these. Yet my responsibility is limited to the amount of control that I
have.  I have been given certain opportunities for control and I am responsible for acting on that.
But there is so much more that is beyond my control.  I am actively working to gain a healthy appreciation for my true responsibility.


## Confessions of a Control Freak

By both nature and nurture I am a control freak.  I tend to believe that I control everything (or at
least ought to).  Every good thing I take credit for and failures are devastating to my well-being.
I naturally view my own triumphs as if I were responsible and tend to discount the role of luck in
my success. When disaster strikes I fall into despair because I realize that I can do nothing.

As an idealist I see the world as it ought to be and am outraged that there are so many things that
are wrong with it.  I have a difficult time releasing my desire to control others in both my
personal relationships and the world at large.  I trust in my opinions far beyond what is healthy.
This causes me to often discount the opinions of others.  The need to be right all the time is a
sign of needing to always be in control.

Control issues often put me in a frenzied state of stress.   "God, grant me the courage to change
what I can, the serenity to accept what I can't, and wisdom to tell the difference."  This prayer
has become a lifeline to me.  It highlights the challenge ... Courage to control, Acceptance to not
control, Wisdom to know what is my responsibility.

Every dysfunction in my life can be traced back to a misunderstanding of what I can and must
control.  Trying to control what I can't or not controlling myself are both paths to despair and
ruin. I have spent most of my life trying to escape the falsehood that is the illusion of control.


## Journey of Transformation

Over the past several years I have been immersed in the pursuit of spiritual formation.  This
incorporates the ideas of emotional health, personal honesty, spiritual practices, and time alone
with God.

I've been on a journey of transformation toward wholeness. Each step has required increasing courage
to honestly look at the dysfunctions in my life.  I realize that I have been carrying wounds from
childhood that profoundly affect my life today.

The change in my life has been astounding. I have experienced new freedom to admit what is true and
healing in my relationships as well.  The greatest impact is unseen.  I have an inner peace that I
have never experienced before.  There is a new confidence that if I am faithful to do what I can
that everything else will somehow work out fine.

I no longer have the fear of failure or rejection that I've carried my whole life.  I am confident
that I will achieve what I am destined to do and fully realize my potential.  In the end I will
experience the joy of finishing well.

This has not been a continuous path for me and has been filled with fits and starts.  I have often 
been caught in eddies and currents that threatened to take me to a dark place.  But God is the one
who has initiated this journey and he will take me where I need to be.

I'm better today than I have ever been, but also worse today than I will ever be again!

