# Fault Lines and Fractures

All humans are fundamentally selfish.  This is what makes it difficult for us to relate to anyone
that is different than us. It is the tragedy of what divides us.

In this article, we will explore the fundamental fault lines that divide us into groups. Once
separated, these relationships may take on a distinct form of hostility as misunderstandings and
offenses multiply.

Every line of separation is used to acknowledge my superiority and to identify those unlike me as
inferior.  These distinctions become so deeply ingrained over time that they are largely invisible
to us.

It is very easy to spot the prejudice of others but almost impossible to see our own.  We hold our
personal superiority (or inferiority) as a self-evident truth.  This allows us to justify all
manner of beastly behavior.


## Culture

There are many aspects of culture that come into play.  Ethnicity and language certainly define our
sense of culture, but there are many other more subtle differences that drive prejudices.  Skin
color is often used as a simple way to identify my people, but this causes great problems for
everyone. It is a poor way to group humans.

Culture is defined by any group that shares a common set of values and beliefs, which naturally
translate into distinctive behaviors for the members of the group.  Any group that can be
identified as being unique can form a separate subculture.

All groups naturally are segmented into subcultures.  How else could we quickly separate the good
people from the bad ones? The people that are most like me are placed in the "Us" group and the
rest are relegated to the "Them" group.  This is the fundamental basis of racism and every other
form of prejudice.


## Class

Wealth is an easy way to separate people.  Haves and Have Nots,  Rich and Poor. If I'm rich I am
suspicious of all poor people knowing that they want to prey on my prosperity.  If I'm poor I am
suspicious of the rich who hoard their wealth at my expense.

On both sides of this divide, there is a mythology that supports our moral outrage.  The morality
myth justifies our hostility or indifference by placing the blame on the other group for creating
the discrepancy.   Poor people are lazy; rich people are selfish and uncaring.  The true story is
that all people are lazy, selfish, and uncaring.

Wealth and Power are closely linked because the wealthy desire all of the power to protect
their wealth.  While the poor are powerless to gain wealth in a system that has been created to
hold them down.  The very purpose of an empire is to protect the rights of the wealthy and
powerful.

The success of any empire can be measured by how effectively it protects the privileges of the
ruling class against the needs of the common people.  Class warfare is built into the very fabric
of the goals of every empire.  In our time, unfettered capitalism is how we experience the dynamics
of empire. Multinational companies and nations are built to keep the powerful rich and weak in 
poverty.


## Gender

There are biological differences between men and women that can easily become the basis for conflict
between us.  From the Taliban to the Baptists, there are many religious groups that seek to
institutionalize these differences by defining specific roles that are permitted by each gender.

Male domination seems to be the typical way this plays out, although theoretically there could
be cultures that adopt an ethic of female domination. Traditional gender roles become the most
important aspect of many societies and an easy way to separate people into good and bad groups.
Good people are those who comply with the social norms defined by the leaders.

In general, the more religious and Right-leaning they are, the more that they equate traditional
gender roles with morality.  Feminism is viewed as a threat that is capable of destroying our
normal happy life, where males rule and females serve.

Strong gender roles are the defining characteristics of many entire societies. These cultures
naturally define women as second-class citizens and tend to be very repressive of those who oppose
these norms.  There is a strong emphasis placed on submission as a way to disempower women.


## Age

Every life stage has its own worldview,  its own wisdom, its own truth, its own idiocy. Between the
life stages, there is a fundamental gap in understanding. You can't walk in my shoes because they
don't fit you!

At every life stage, we have a very specific worldview based on the reality of the life we see
around us. Our specific view of reality is so strong that it blinds us to the experiences of
others. We naturally believe that we all share a common view of reality and are perplexed by the
idiocy of others.

Mind the gap.

20-60 gap

- Old people ...
    - just want to control me
    - live in fear
    - don't even care what I want
    - take away my freedom
    - just care about healthcare and taxes
    - hoard money
    - are self-righteous

60-20 gap

- Young people ...
    - out of control
    - have no fear 
    - don't even care what I want
    - are dangerous and foolish
    - just care about themselves
    - want my money
    - are self-righteous

The celebrated generation gap has been around since the beginning. A twenty-something and
sixty-something live in different worlds. They could never possibly understand each other, but they
can respect one another and choose to be polite. That is the essence of civility.

Life stage defines my experience and reality.   My values, beliefs, and behaviors are determined by
my life stage.   My generation (those within ten years of my age) get me while no one else does.
The further away others are in age, the more outrageous and frustrating their conduct and attitudes
appear to me.

I must make a conscious effort to recognize that everyone lives in the reality of their current
stage of life.  I must choose to allow them to have their own reality without desiring to force
mine upon them.   Easy to say, hard to do.


## Come Together

Living in harmony with others is extremely unnatural.  These four fracture planes and many others
threaten to tear us apart.   Every interaction that we have with anyone is affected by these
issues.  If left unchecked we all become increasingly isolated and lonely.

As irritating as others are, we were all built to be in relationships.  But this takes serious work.
We must be willing to bridge all of the gaps between us to come together.  Only then can
we experience the joy of interacting with others that are not just like us.  The more we reach out
the richer our lives will be.

