# The Process of Grief

The main way I grow is to read.  I find it transformative to be exposed to ideas from great thinker without the social
pressure of needing to agree or contradict those ideas. I find dynamic conversations quite difficult and unsafe for this
reason.

Several authors offer distinct perspectives on dealing with grief, each shaped by their personal experiences and
spiritual reflections.  These writers have been able to help me understand my own journey through grief after losing my
precious wife to cancer.

**C.S. Lewis**, in his book *A Grief Observed*, provides an intimate and raw account of his grief after the death of his
wife, Joy. Lewis describes grief as a complex, often contradictory process that can feel like fear, weariness, or even
madness. He speaks of the importance of allowing oneself to feel the full depth of the pain rather than trying to
suppress it. For Lewis, grief is also a spiritual journey where the mourner confronts their beliefs about God and the
afterlife. He grapples with questions of faith, doubt, and the nature of suffering, ultimately finding that while grief
changes a person, it also deepens their understanding of love and the human condition. His approach to grief is marked
by honesty, reflection, and a willingness to confront difficult questions head-on.

**J.S. Park** offers a contemporary view of grief, particularly through his work *The Voices We Carry*. Park, a pastor
and counselor, discusses grief in the context of trauma and the various "voices" that shape our inner life. He
emphasizes the importance of community and vulnerability, suggesting that sharing one's pain with others can be a
crucial step in healing. Park views grief not as something to be "fixed" but as an ongoing process that must be
navigated with compassion and self-awareness. He encourages people to acknowledge their pain, lean into the discomfort,
and trust that there is hope even in the darkest moments. Park's approach is holistic, integrating emotional,
psychological, and spiritual dimensions of grief.

**Gerald Sittser**, in *A Grace Disguised*, reflects on his profound personal loss when a car accident killed his
mother, wife, and daughter. Sittser writes about how catastrophic loss can lead to a "grace" that transforms one's life,
even as it remains deeply painful. He argues that while grief does not diminish over time, it can lead to a deeper
understanding of life and faith. Sittser emphasizes the importance of embracing grief fully, allowing it to work through
us rather than trying to escape or minimize it. He talks about the concept of "enlargement," where grief, paradoxically,
expands one's capacity for joy, love, and empathy. Sittser's perspective is marked by a deep sense of resilience, seeing
grief as a path to a more profound spiritual and emotional life.

Lewis, Park, and Sittser all recognize grief as a transformative experience. Lewis focuses on the personal, reflective
struggle with grief and faith. Park highlights the importance of community and emotional honesty in the grieving
process. Sittser sees grief as a journey that, while incredibly painful, can lead to an expanded and enriched life. Each
perspective offers valuable insights into the complex and multifaceted nature of grieving.

