# John Wesley's Manifesto

Many of the issues of our day were addressed by John Wesley over 200 years ago.
We can learn a lot from those who have gone before us.

What issues did John Wesley care about and write about in the 18th century?

1. Reduce the gap between rich people and poor people

2. Help everyone to have a job

3. Help the poorest, including introducing a living wage

4. Offer the best possible education

5. Help everyone to feel they can make a difference

6. Promote tolerance

7. Promote equal treatment for women

8. Create a society based on values and not on profits and consumerism

9. End all forms of slavery

10. Avoid getting into wars

11. Share the love of God with everyone

12. Care for the environment


### John Wesley â€“ in his own words


1. Be ye ready to distribute to everyone, according to their necessity.

2. Wickedly, devilishly false is that common objection, 'They are poor only
because they are idle ... Find them work ... They will then earn and eat their
own bread.'

3. How many are there in this Christian country that toil, and labor, and
sweat... but struggle with weariness and hunger together? Is it not worse for
one, after a hard days labour, to come back to a poor, cold, dirty,
uncomfortable lodging, and to find there not even the food which is needful to
repair his wasted strength?

4. Beware of that common, but accursed, way of making children parrots ...
Regard not how much, but how well, to what good purpose, they read ... The end
of education ... is to help us discover every false judgement of our minds, and
to subdue every wrong passion in our hearts... and to understand as much as we
are able.

5. I continue to dream... of the time when the potential of each person can be
unleashed.

6. Though we cannot think alike, may we not love alike? May we not be of one
heart, though we are not of one opinion?

7. May not women as well as men bear an honourable part ... yield not to the
vile bondage any longer. You, as well as men, are rational creatures. You, like
them, were made in the image of God.

8. In seeking happiness from riches, you are only striving to drink out of empty
cups. And let them be painted and gilded ever so finely, they are empty still

9. Let none serve you but by his own act and deed, by his own voluntary action.
Away with all whips, all chains, all compulsion! ... Do with everyone else as
you would he should do to you.

10. War: What farther proof of do we need of the utter degeneracy of all nations
from the plainest principles of reason and virtue? Of the absolute want, both of
common sense and common humanity, which runs through the whole race of mankind?

11. The world is my parish.

12. Lead us beyond an exclusive concern for the well-being of other human beings
to the broader concern for the well-being of the birds in our backyards, the
fish in our rivers, and every living creature on the face of the earth.

