# My Kingdom Come

## The Need to be King

There is something deep in the human psyche that drives us to be King.  This
desire knows no limits except the practical limitations imposed upon us.  If
possible, each of us would subjugate others and claim all wealth, power, and
privilege for our own.  If not for the practical opposition we face we would
relegate all others to slavery.  This is what it means to be human.


## Rule Myself


The first arena where conflict takes place is within my heart and mind.  I want
to be in control of everything in my world.  I want total freedom to Do, Say,
Think, and Feel whatever I desire, with no repercussions or accountability. 
When I am king, I will have the last word.

Some of us use spiritual means to gain control of our circumstances by using
dark spells and magic incantations .  Others use prayer as a means of forcing
God to carry out our will.  We naturally need to conceal the underlying
motivation within religious language, but the ultimate motivation is still the
same.

Weak-minded people are frightened by the complexity of the world we live in and
are easy prey to any "truthy" explanation of reality.   These delusional
conspiracies are forcefully sold as truth but are simply lies that lead victims
down a destructive path.  The lure of secret knowledge is really a reflection of
our need for control.  With this special knowledge we hope to gain advantage in
our confusing world.


## Battle for My Will


As would be king, my prayer is, "My will be done on earth as it is in heaven
too."  My expectation is that I have every right to comfort, security, wealth,
power, health, education, entertainment, privilege, respect, and worship.  Every
challenge to these rights is seen as rebellion against my rightful rule.

As I age, I gain more power and this only increases the need to be in total
control.  I see myself as a benevolent ruler with a true desire to make the
world better.   I only resort to violence for those who would rebel against me,
since they would seek to subvert my kind and gentle rule.  Of course I try to
hide this desire for domination since others are naturally repelled by it.


## Battle Over My World


This battle is not limited to my mind alone.  It is played out each day in my
relation to the world around me.  I cannot control the circumstances of my
world, and this makes me angry.  I often channel this anger into attempts to
control and manipulate others.  Of course, I am very clever about it so that
others are unaware of my intensions.

Now I recognize that I can't control the weather, the stock market, and the
government.  This is one of the main reasons I pray.  I believe that God loves
me and wants me to be happy.  Therefore I expect his assistance in organizing
the world on my behalf.  First, he must work on my behalf to give me the control
I need, then I will help him achieve his goals in the world.  This arrangement
seems to be fraught with problems and I sometimes question it altogether.


## Battle with Others


This view of the world colors my thinking in every area.  Perhaps it is most
strongly visible in how I relate to others.  I view others through a lens of how
they can achieve my goals.  People are resources, like wealth and power, to be
used to get what I need.  

I am naturally drawn to people that have the potential to help me in some way. 
I seek out those who are successful (possessing both wealth and power) because
they can be used to help me become more successful.

I naturally reject those who are weak (without wealth and power) because they
will be a net loss for me.  This worldview holds no inherent value for humans
beyond  how I can benefit from them.  People are pieces to be manipulated in my
game.  Nothing more.


## Embracing Hard Truths


I recognize that this paints a rather dire picture of my internal psyche.  But I
have felt the need to be brutally honest about my innate tendencies and
attitudes.  I have been surprised, shocked, and disappointed about how deep this
runs in me.  If you are honest, perhaps you recognize some of these same
patterns.

Early in my life, I began to be aware of these things but it is only in recent
years that I could articulate the depth of my brokenness.  I now see the crux of
my problem to be my insatiable desire for control.  On my worst days I am driven
to be king at all costs, with disastrous consequences.  On my best days I see
beyond my selfish desires to truly love others.

There is a tendency for self-awareness to be overwhelmed by self-justification. 
Attitudes that are clearly wrong can be easily justified as being righteous and
insightful.  As I draw into the last quarter, I realize that I am too old to
entertain such delusions.  I am now willing to accept the painful truths about
me, in the hopes that I can still change.


## Another King


As a teen I began a long journey toward wholeness.  At 14 I was living in
despair and rage and struggling to survive.  I had no expectation of reaching
the age of 20 or what life would be like after that.  At that point I met some
"Jesus Freaks" who painted a very different worldview than the one I was living
at the time.

I made a simple calculation that my life was not worth anything and I should try
this new Jesus thing.  My turn toward God was completely selfish and based in a
belief that he would improve my happiness.  That began a cascade of events in my
life that I am still living out today.  Right away my outer life changed
dramatically.   What I did and how I related to others was  visibly changed for
all who knew me.

While the exterior cleaned up pretty well my interior life was far more
problematic.   My thoughts and feelings were deeply entrenched in my personal
kingdom.  It is quite easy to appear good on the outside and be seeking to
control everything around.  What I think and feel runs bone-deep and is not
easily tamed.

After 47 years of following Christ, I find that many of my beliefs, values, and
attitudes are still rooted in an allegiance to ME.  The central message of Jesus
was that he came to bring God's authority over the lives of all humans.  This
kingdom doesn't come forcefully with violence, but as an invitation to
relinquish control. 

When I started my journey so long ago, I had no idea of the gap between my
kingdom and God's.   But as the years have turned to decades I am appreciating
how comprehensive the transformation is.  God's work within me, while often
painful, is the very reason I live.  I could not imagine any other life.

