# Embracing My Life Purpose

## Live out your dreams

What we dream for says a lot about who we are.  Evaluate your dreams.  How are
you fulfilling them? Let this be a focal power in your prayer time.  Your
deepest dreams are a reflection of God's purpose for you.  God gradually changes
what you most desire.

Because of this transformation, we can be confident that he will give us his
dreams.   These are a direct reflection of his purpose for our lives.  Of
course, this is only true to the extent that we are following him.  It is not
simply automatic because we call ourselves Christian.

God will fulfill every desire that he has placed within you.  You get your
deepest needs met because they are completely aligned with his purpose for you.
As you are transformed you desire the things that God does.

You can truly know God's will for your life.  It does not need to be a mystery
any longer. Your dreams are a unique reflection of God's plan for you.

This is also why the process of transformation can be painful.  The Lord messes
with the things that you most value.   He is continuously shaping your desires.
When he is done you will look a lot more like him.

This plan is specific to you, so don't let anyone else define what you ought to
be.  God will reveal his purpose to you as you seek to be obedient to him.  The
dreams that you have for your life are one of the primary ways that God guides
you.

Take the time to get in touch with the things that you really long for.  Create
your own list and pray over it.  Make it a focal point of dialog with God. This
approach can help you make decisions with greater clarify and confidence.


## Embrace your dreams and fears

To truly understand what is in a person's heart you must understand their
deepest emotions.  We care about some things so much that they seem to drive
everything we do.

You may have strong emotions that cause certain behaviors that you are not even
fully conscious of. This can cause a lot of additional turmoil in your life and
for those around you.

Identifying you top dreams is a great step in coming to grips with motivational
issues.  The top dreams are the ones that are close to your central identify.
These are the things that define the difference between a good day and a bad
one.

Your top dreams are not always obvious.  They are almost never a simple career
goal or a role to play.  They go much deeper than that.  But your top dreams may
have a lot to do with your career choices and roles that you take on.

To capture your dreams try this simple exercise.  Find a quiet place and make a
list of the five things you most want from your life.  This is the first cut but
probably not the core list.

Now test it.  Assume that the things you wrote down are all that you get for the
rest of your life. You must give up everything else to get these five things.
Did you miss anything?

Now it is time to be more specific.  Select each dream and see if you can
identify the crux of what makes that dream important to you.  What is the
smallest thing that truly captures the essence of your dream?

I did a similar exercise related to my core fears at a different time. I was
surprised to find almost complete overlap in the lists.  It makes sense that,
what we long for is also what we fear losing most.

Share these things with your two closest friends.  Tell how these dreams define
who you are.  Get their feedback to help refine your language on each of them.
You will find this conversation very liberating.

Your dreams are a large part of what defines you.  You are what you dream about.

