# My Reason to Live - the human spirit

## Meaning of Life

We live in a time when many of us struggle to find meaning in life. It seems
like we work a  job, have a family, and great hobbies, but still wonder why.
How can we ever feel truly satisfied  with the life opportunities we have been
given?

Meaning is about finding the purpose for our very existence. Without it we are
like ships lost  at sea.  Without meaning we will always seek comfort in
unhealthy ways.  It is a sense of purpose  that gives us passion and motivation
to keep moving forward.

Meaningful work and meaningful relationships are essential to living the good
life. Without these  we are doomed to misery.  Both of these areas must be
supported by a healthy private life.  Constantly learning and growing allows us
to truly appreciate life as it is.  Living in the  moment and being ready for
the future create meaning in both our work and relationships.

* [WORK - Meaningful Work](Work)
* [LOVE - Meaningful Relationships](Love)
* [GROW - Personal Development](Grow)
* [ENJOY - Daily Joy](Enjoy)


## Search for Meaning

I've spent my entire life searching for the meaning of life.  I was a really
awkward kid that had difficulty fitting in to any peer group.  I was never good
at sports and was typically  picked last for the team which hammered my
self-esteem.

I excelled at learning but found school terminally boring. In sixth grade I had
a phenomenal teacher named Bob Dawson.  Most of what I learned in my entire K-12
was from that class.  He taught us how to core pine trees, the design of the
internal combustion engine and refrigerator mechanics, algebra, geometry, Greek
mythology, and literature.  He was the best teacher ever that ever taught.

I have always struggled with authority.  Much of my journey in personal growth
has been related to understanding and managing this important aspect of my life.
 For much of my life I treated my need to rebel as a  problem area that needs to
be fixed. But recently I see it as a gift that gives me strength to make 
sacrifices to serve others. 

I was born to see the problems all around me and am highly motivated to fix
them.  Clearly, this motivation must be actively managed and tempered with
reason and empathy, lest it reek havoc on everyone.

Inventing is in my bones.  I was born an engineer, but lacked the training until
college to do it professionally. I've spent decades on the forefront of
technology, pushing the envelope. I build things in my dreams and in  my waking
hours.  Sometimes I even get paid for building stuff. I would build things if I
had to pay for the privilege of doing so.  I often have.

Teaching has always been a passion of mine.  Each time I invent something new,
read a great book, or get a terrific idea.  I find several friends and engage
them in discussion.  When I was working as a corporate engineer this desire to
teach would sometimes irritate my bosses, that just wanted  me to write code.
Recently I have found the perfect opportunity to express the desire to teach
with a room full of college students.  This is a dream come true for me.

Writing is the fastest most flexible way for me to share ideas with others. My
world is filled with ideas about all kinds of things. I'm a voracious reader and
love to be exposed to ideas that are different and novel.  I don't read content
that I totally agree with, because it does not challenge my current thinking in
any way.  Writing is a great way to wrestle with a new idea and work out my own
understanding.  Writing is mostly a private tool for me but occasionally I
publish things I write.

Inventing, Teaching, and Writing are my public roles that give meaning and
purpose. I fill fully  alive and invigorated when I do these three things. Now
that I am retired I have the opportunity to do each of these things every day
all day long.  A big part of the meaning of life for me is getting the work
commitments to match my personal passions.
