# Key Roles in Life

## My Roles

Now that we understand the four factors of motivation we can start to look at the specific roles that
we perform.  We play many roles in our public and private life.  For this discussion, we will focus
on the work roles that you fill.

Each role ideally derives from you purpose. If not there will be an internal battle for motivation
and constant friction between your goals and the needs of others.

If you find yourself in this spot get creative.  Either find a way to bend your existing role into
something that fits or detach completely and start again.  You will never be happy doing a role
that is a poor fit for who you want to be.

I've done many types of jobs over the years.  Often the roles that I find myself in were defined by
others and not that great a fit. The times I have enjoyed the most are always tied to the perfect
role that is well aligned with my destiny.

Now I can look at an opportunity and tell within a few minutes if I will be able to thrive. This is
usually determined by how well suited I am to the role that I will play.

There are three roles that are aligned to my destiny. One I have known from childhood, and one took
me fifty years to discover. I need to perform all three of these roles in order to be fulfilled.
Others may be happy with a single role that fits well.


### Invent

As a child I was an inventor.  I would disassemble my toys and attempt to reassemble them with my
improvements. In high school I got interested in electronics and computers. I could not wait to
study electrical engineering so that I could invent things for a living.

I never agonized about my career since I always knew that I wanted to be an inventor.  My heroes
growing up were Einstein, Telsa, and Edison, and later Jobs and Gates.

Creative Problem Solving is the hallmark of invention.  To motivate me you simply need to tell me
that know one has ever solved this problem and that you don't think it is possible.

Over the years I have developed a process for incubating ideas and turning problems into solutions.
Ilove building systems and get great joy in optimizing them.


### Write

As an engineer writing has been one of the most useful skills.  I found early on that I loved the
process of writing.  There is something very satisfying about putting ideas on paper.

I live in a world filled with ideas.  Writing is a means of expressing ideas.  Because I am an
introvert conversations with others are accompanied by a fair amount of social anxiety.  Writing
therefore gives me an exhilarating way to express my ideas and avoid the awkwardness of social
interaction.

I find writing very therapeutic. The act of writing helps to clarify things in my own mind.  I am a
voracious reader and constantly seeking to learn new things.  Writing about what I am learning is a
great way to make the learning concrete.

Influence is also an important goal for me.  I think that there is a shortage of common sense in the
world right now and I intend to help fill that gap.  Most of what I write about is some form of
best practice.

Much of what I write is not really intended for a specific audience. I write for the joy of it and
sometimes I make it available to others. For me the thrill is in the writing act itself and it
matters little if what I write is read by others.


### Teach

I taught my first college class when I was 57.  Within the semester I was hooked. I discovered a
passion that I didn't know I had.  Looking backward I recognized all of the teaching that was a key
part of every job I ever had. In fact, there were times when I got in trouble for trying to turn my
engineering job into an opportunity for training others.

Influencing people that are just at the start of their careers is a great joy. Helping them sort out
all of the demands and pressures of life can be quite daunting for some and I love aiding them in
the needed decisions. 

I also love writing course material.  I have developed a process that allows me to convert knowledge
into a reliable course to instruct others.  I find that most students are eager to learn if the
material can be presented to them in a logical fashion.

I teach web development skills by having students do a series of projects that force them to master
the desired skills in order to be successful.  Even though the teaching role has been discovered
late in life, it has given me the greatest level of overall satisfaction.


## Aspects of Meaningful Work

There are four dimensions to finding meaning in life.  Each of these is important but it is the
combination of these factors that brings a sense of fulfillment and completion.

### Create

I create things. It's what I do.  Whether as a software developer, author, or teacher I have a
primal urge to create something new, something beautiful, and something that has never been done
before. This thirst for innovation is my greatest joy in life.

### Contribute

What I create must be useful and valuable to someone.  Part of the joy I get from creating things is
knowing that I have solved a real problem for someone else.  Seeing the impact of my work makes me
want to solve other problems and increase the benefits delivered.

### Connect

I need to connect with others at a deep level. I crave significant conversations with people.  I am
easily frustrated by shallow relationships and find it difficult to meet new people.  I want to
surround myself with people I trust and devote my energy into those relationships.  I limit the
time I spend with casual acquaintances.

### Challenge

Every day should produce a variety of stimulating situations that force me to grow.   I am easily
bored by old projects, old ideas, and old skills.   I need variety in activity, experiences, and
ways of thinking.  I must be challenged to operate on the edge of my competency.

