# Spiritual Formation

## My Empire

We are created in the image of God, but we spend a lifetime taking on the likeness of God. At a
genetic level, we are predisposed to have God-like characteristics but the reality we experience in
our lives is quite different.

This tragedy plays out daily as we choose to be self-centered rather than God-centered. The
fundamental struggle for control is what Jesus spoke about most often in his teaching. Two kingdoms
vie for loyalty and dominance - two emperors seeking to extend their empires.

The empire of ME is where I get my way.  Every decision is made by me and for my glory, comfort,
power, and control.  I will use every resource available to bend circumstances to my will. This
empire is run by the laws of self-interest and is what Paul calls the deeds of the flesh.


## God's Empire

The empire of GOD is a kingdom where God's will is done.  God's will is often in conflict with my
will making it impossible to serve two masters.  I must choose. Not choosing is also a choice. 

Learning to walk in submission to God is a lifelong journey.  It begins with a decision to follow
Jesus where ever he leads, but that is only the start.  Daily we are tested as we have
opportunities to betray our God and revert to living the Kingdom of ME.


## Complete transformation

Spiritual formation is the process of learning to walk with God as our supreme ruler.  In his
empire, he gets to call the shots and we follow his lead. His Spirit is forming our character so
that we look more like Jesus.  

The goal of this transformation is that we would be created in both the image and likeness of
Christ. We are created in the Image of God, but we seek to take on the Likeness of God. Spiritual
fruit is evidence of true transformation.

There are three major areas of spiritual formation needed to achieve wholeness. These
transformations work together and result in us looking and acting like Jesus.

- Emotional Health (What we feel)
- Social Health (How we relate to others)
- Behavioral Health (What we do)


## Wholeness

Integrity is the character to meet the demands of reality. Without the Spirit's work in our lives,
we will never be able to meet the demands of reality.  We will relapse into selfishness and seek
only our own benefit. We can remain immature for decades.

Apart from the Spirit's influence, we become obsessed with wealth and power. We seek only our
benefit and lack compassion for others.  Character flaws gradually destroy our lives and we do not
experience God's will any longer. This is the nature of the kingdom of Self.  We can never serve
two masters. We must choose.

Health requires integrity, which happens when all parts of our character are combined to create a
Spirit-controlled personality.  The opposite of integrity is disintegration,  where the various
aspects of our lives are at constant war with each other.

You can't fake spiritual transformation. The move from disintegration to integrity takes us from
brokenness to wholeness.  It begins with acknowledging how broken we truly are. Then the Spirit
works within us to transform us into wholeness.

The result is complete health and wholeness that can be seen in every area of our lives. Our
emotions, relationship, and behavior must be touched by this process.  I there are areas of life
that remain untouched then it means the transformation is blocked at that point.

