# Spiritual Warfare

We must understand the current battle in the context of the greater war.  Every
earthly battle is a consequence of a war that has raged for the entire 6,000
years of recorded history. Empires have come and gone but the struggle is an
eternal one until the end of the age.

The conflict centers around who gets to control the wealth and power.  There is
a human kingdom and a  supernatural kingdom that are completing for influence. 
The two kingdoms have completely different natures,  motivations, and rules.


Micah 6:8 - MSG
 
But he's already made it plain how to live, what to do, what God is looking for
in men and women. It's quite simple: Do what is fair and just to your neighbor,
be compassionate and loyal in your love, And don't take yourself too seriously—
take God seriously. 


Galatians 5:16-23 - MSG

My counsel is this: Live freely, animated and motivated by God's Spirit. Then
you won't feed the  compulsions of selfishness. For there is a root of sinful
self-interest in us that is at odds with a free spirit, just as the free spirit
is incompatible with selfishness. These two ways of life  are antithetical, so
that you cannot live at times one way and at times another way according to  how
you feel on any given day. Why don't you choose to be led by the Spirit and so
escape the  erratic compulsions of a law-dominated existence?

It is obvious what kind of life develops out of trying to get your own way all
the time:  repetitive, loveless, cheap sex; a stinking accumulation of mental
and emotional garbage; frenzied  and joyless grabs for happiness; trinket gods;
magic-show religion; paranoid loneliness; cutthroat  competition;
all-consuming-yet-never-satisfied wants; a brutal temper; an impotence to love
or be  loved; divided homes and divided lives; small-minded and lopsided
pursuits; the vicious habit of  depersonalizing everyone into a rival;
uncontrolled and uncontrollable addictions; ugly parodies  of community. I could
go on.

This isn't the first time I have warned you, you know. If you use your freedom
this way, you will  not inherit God's kingdom.

But what happens when we live God's way? He brings gifts into our lives, much
the same way that  fruit appears in an orchard—things like affection for others,
exuberance about life, serenity.  We develop a willingness to stick with things,
a sense of compassion in the heart, and a conviction  that a basic holiness
permeates things and people. We find ourselves involved in loyal commitments, 
not needing to force our way in life, able to marshal and direct our energies
wisely.


The two natures

* God's kingdom - Justice, Compassion, Humility
* Human kingdoms - Greed, Fear, Hatred


The tragedy of recent events in our world is not tied to evil people doing evil
things.  The real tragedy is that so many of God's people have been seduced to
support evil goals for the hopes of wealth and power.

Our struggle is not with humans but with the spiritual forces that would lead us
by greed, fear,  and hatred. This is the spirit of the antichrist and many of
God's people cannot recognize it.

Much of the church has enlisted in the dark kingdom and has abandoned the very
goals of justice, compassion, and humility.  Jesus weeps over the church in
America.  We have sold our birthright, and chosen to not follow Jesus.  We are
deaf to the suffering and silent to cries of the weak and oppressed.  It is time
we repent and turn back to the rightful king.  This is our wakeup call!


