# Spiritual Practices

## Gratitude

One of the great tragedies of modern life is our loss of appreciation for what
we have.  It is all too easy to spend our mental energy on the things that we
wish we had but still lack. This can blind us to the many benefits that we
experience everyday.

Gratitude is the simple act of pausing and appreciating. In this act we 
naturally remember to say, "Thank you".  Expressing thankfulness is a natural
consequence of experiencing it.  A person that inhales air will naturally exhale
without a reminder.

Pause several times today and make room for gratitude.  Take a few moments to
savor the things that you value most in your life.  Tell the people around 
you how much you treasure them.

This simple act will release unimaginable joy.  Then tomorrow you can go back to
your old grumpy self if you really want to.


## Contentment, Simplicity, Generosity

These three words have been constantly on my mind recently.  These are the core
issues of everyday life.  This is where our vague desire to follow God is
tested, and where spiritual transformation takes place.

We live is a society that is obsessed with getting more.  We need more money,
more time, more recognition, more stuff, more control over others, and even more
control over God.  This self-centered orientation lies at the heart of our
unhappiness.

Let's face it.  How much is enough?  If you are honest, you probably believe
that you could be happy if you had 20% more than you have right now.  But the
horizon keeps moving.

If you are discontent now you will remain discontent until Jesus transforms your
desires.  There is no point at which the false gods actually satisfy us.  The
issue exists inside our skin.

When we trust in the wrong things, then it is not possible to be at peace. No
amount of success will make us feel approved, and no size of bank account will
make us feel secure.

We actually long for Jesus, but don't know it.  He is our only hope.  He is the
provider, sustainer, healer, and the security that we need.

God is calling us to accept his truth about ourselves and his role in our lives.
This leads us to humbly acknowledge him and surrender the control over our
lives.

This drama plays out in every area of our lives. Materialism compels us to work
long hours and build complex plans to scratch the unscratchable itch.  We place
demands on those around us to meet our every need, while at the same time being
unwilling to sacrifice for their benefit. Ultimately, we poison our
relationships with our unending thirst for more recognition and control.

Jesus offers us freedom from this vicious cycle of destruction and
dissatisfaction.  God always meets each true need we ever have.  He is the one
who brings people into our lives.  He grants to each of us the opportunities
aligned with his plans.  He leads and guides us on the right path to take.

Being in control is only an illusion.  God desires to replace this illusion with
his actual presence. He will give us the provision, security, recognition, and
peace that we need.

This is the work of spiritual transformation.  God changes us from the inside
out. The truest measure of the Spirit's work is seen in how we live out
Contentment, Simplicity, and Generosity.


## Solitude

In the quietness of our inner being, thoughts are carefully nurtured.  That is
where hope and dreams can be persistently sustained.  In the solitude
resolutions are forged and difficult commitments made.  There intimacy can
flourish and our life is renewed and transformed.  We must maintain our inner
life or our strength will weaken and our resolve will dissipate.

In the solitude we must meet with God and wrestle with the issues that threaten
to destroy us.  This is the place where we truly find him. It is ironic that it
is also where we discover our true selves as well. Knowing God reveals things
about us that we would rather hide.

There is no substitute.  If we don't take time to be alone with God, then we
will never grow very deep.  Youth is fleeting, but immaturity can last a
lifetime.  We need time to connect at an emotional level with our creator.

This is the most valuable time that we will ever spend.  Yet, we so often miss
out on it for lesser activities.  Take care of your inner life.  Let God attend
to your deepest needs.


## Sabbath Rest

A day without work is hard for someone with Achiever Talent. I have an internal
drive to always be proving my worth by doing. I need to practice the Sabbath.
During this time I cease from trying to control and win.

You are the source of every perfect gift and untainted blessing. You supply all
that I need. You guide the details of my life in a way that will bring You
glory, and me to maturity. For all this I don't need to strive. Help me rest in
Your care and acknowledge You for all that You do on my behalf.

A day of rest is also important because it causes us to pull back from the
things that consume our attention. It is easy to believe that work is all there
is to life. But the **To Do List** never relents. The Sabbath forces a break to
this thinking. It lets us recreate to re-create our souls. Thank You for this
gift.

I want to just "be" in Your presence. I want to live In The Present and the
Sabbath is a good way to start. You are God, I am not.

To have a meaningful Sabbath Rest it is important to do activities that are
fundamentally different than the regular work activities. I work on computers
for a living, so working on computers as a break is insane. I need activities
that involve working with my hands, riding bikes, hiking, or playing guitar.
These are legitimate activities that would feed my soul by giving me a break in
my routine.


## Quiet Time

The most important thing that we can do to follow Jesus is to invest time to be
alone with God.  Our lives are filled with so much business that the
critical moments are crowded out.  There is a direct correlation between the hours
spent in God's presence and the health of our emotions.

An hour spent basking in the Father's love and listening to the voice of the
Spirit is a luxury that is available to each of us.  Even ten minutes alone with
God can have a dramatic affect.

Being alone with God is one thing, but being still before him is quite another.
Short periods of being alone with God often fail to produce the true connection
that feeds our souls.  This is because our minds are so noisy with what we bring
to the encounter that we seldom have a really true meeting.

What truly changes us is when we experience the emotions that accompany God's
Spirit (love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, gentleness, self-control). It
takes time to rid ourselves of all the turmoil rattling around our heads to
receive the Lord (like receiving visiting royalty).

When is the last time that you knew without a doubt that you were in the throne
room of the Creator? Is it time for you to have another visit?
