# Living in Surrender

## In Control

When do we get to take charge? After we have been following the Lord for an a
while, we begin to wonder when we get to take over. When will it be time that we
can fully be in control? When are we licensed to operate independently?

There is something in each of us that longs to take over control of every aspect
of our lives. We do not really like it when God directs our steps and messes in
our business. It would be much better if he were to leave us alone until we call
for an emergency rescue.

I'm on a personal journey of relinquishing control, methodically,
systematically, and permanently. But no matter how much I think I have given up
control, the Lord keeps touching areas that are still unyielded.

This is a painful process, but ultimately it results in complete freedom. The
pain ends with the surrender of each area. But the freedom lasts forever, or at
least until I reclaim the lost ground.

Yielding to God's will brings a peace of knowing that he is in complete control.
It brings rest and healing. If he leads us and we can fully trust him, then we
do not have any fear about the future.


## Trying Harder

When it comes to loving God and others, trying harder does not get us any
closer.  I often view my attempts to become more loving as a gage for my rating
with God. It is a fruitless ploy to try and earn approval from him. But he
already loves me as much as he ever will.  There is nothing that can be done to
justify his love for me.

Sometimes I confuse my desire to love others with my own needs and agenda.  I
may feel better about myself when I am serving others. This can easily become
the actual motivation for serving.  The activity may be valid but the emotional
motivation is not.  If I am serving others for my own benefit then it is not
really about true love.

This self-serving attitude just doesn't work. Doing holy activities for
corrupted reasons ends up in religious bondage and hypocrisy.  Instead I need
the transformation of the Holy Spirit to give me a legitimate desire to love
others more.

The key issue is not giving more but receiving more.  I accept love,
forgiveness, and nurture from God. These things change my capacity to give them
away to others.

This is not simply a transaction motivated by self-interest.  I don't try to
love others to feel good and build self esteem.  Instead, I accept his love
freely.  This produces a desire within to serve others.

This all begins by allowing God to impact my emotions with the full weight of
his love.  As I know him more, I will be changed into the person that he desires
for me to be.


## Lifestyle of Repentance

For followers of Christ, what we focus on is an issue that completely determines
our destiny.  Disciples must live by faith. This means that we see each 
situation as a opportunity to grow in our understanding of God's will for our
lives.

Giving in to pessimism is called faithlessness. When we no longer seek out
God's perspective on our life circumstances we are not walking in faith.
We are turning away from his will and pursuing our own will instead.

Fortunately, the Spirit helps us to see that we need to turn around to find
God's viewpoint once again.  We tend to think about the cycles of turning away
and back again as events lasting from weeks to years.

Why wait until your life is in shambles before surrendering your will again.
Ask the Spirit to highlight some area where you have chosen to lose faith.
Where is God's truth needed in your life right now?  What lies have you chosen
to embrace that are taking you off the path to your true destiny?


## Peace with God

Life is really pretty pointless until we can find a power beyond ourselves.  We
can pursue many things to try to fulfill our deepest desires.  But apart from
having a relationship with God, nothing will ever satisfy us. Yielding control
of our lives to God is an essential aspect of a rich life.

We humans have an amazing capacity for self-deception.  We see things through a
very distorted lens.  We believe things because we want to, not because they are
true.  At some point in our lives we must embrace absolute truth.  This is a
simple acknowledgment of reality, rather than bending the truth to match how we
think it should be.

One of the most fascinating things about the good news of reconciliation, is
that when we admit the truth about ourselves we gain God's acceptance. When we
acknowledge how hopeless life without God is, we receive his hope. With the
understanding of our weakness we begin to rely on his strength. This begins a
phenomenal process of transformation.

We receive the provisions of the Lord as a gift.  As we understand this we can
stop trying so hard to earn God's love. Nothing that we can do or be, is that
great anyway.  We gain his favor by seeking relationship with him, not by trying
to do favors for him.  This changes the nature of every facet of our lives.

When we spend time alone with God we find true peace.  Opening ourselves to his
presence is the only way to truly be at peace.  This does not occur
automatically.  It happens when we consciously lay down our own plans and
demands, and simply receive his love.  This can be a hard thing for us since we
live such busy lives.  But is is well worth the effort.


## Being Light

Turning on a light removes all the darkness. The only power that darkness has is
to obscure, hide and deceive.  When light comes darkness is completely removed.

God's truth is like that too. A situation that is murky and twisted, with layers
of carefully constructed and protected lies can be cleared up in a moment.  Evil
requires secrecy to thrive.  Truth by itself can destroy the power of evil.

As followers of Christ we reveal the true nature of God to the world around us.
We have the privilege of providing light in dark situations.  This will often
put us in direct conflict with powerful people that do not want any part in
truth.

We must be so motivated by love to be willing to speak out against deception
regardless of the personal consequences that this might have.  As we see things
the way that God sees them, our only response is to muster our courage and speak
out against injustice.

What area of your life needs this call to action?  Where is the Spirit prompting
you to get more involved in defending the defenseless?



## Release Control

Many internal conflicts I experience are related to control.  As God is molding
me into his image, he is uncovering these issues.  I need to embrace his work.

The issues of contentment, simplicity, and generosity are primarily about
control. Contentment comes from relinquishing control of expectations.
Simplicity is focusing only on essential things in order to eliminate everything
else.  Generosity is the natural consequence of a lifestyle that is open to
others.

Each of these areas are interrelated and require a sacrifice of control. My life
is not really about me.  It is about bringing glory to the Creator of the
Universe.

I continually struggle with performance.  I have a deep emotional need to
achieve. This becomes unhealthy when my performance is the basis for acceptance.
This is just a control issue disguised as needing a sense of purpose.

What is motivating this drive?   Is it a true desire to honor God, or do I
believe that I can generate my own emotional feelings of self-worth?

Contentment in achievement is a major issue for me.  My natural tendency is to
ignore everything that has already been accomplished to reach for the next set
of goals.  Even the largest successes have an emotional half-life of a single
day. If I were to win a Nobel Prize then after a week I start to wonder what I
have done for the last week.

Simplicity means having smaller goals. I feel that each new goal has to be added
onto all other existing goals. Every day I feel the burden of building this
giant pyramid of interconnected goals. Simplicity is saying "No" to this self-
inflicted disease.

Generosity is shifting the focus from meeting my need to those of someone else.
Instead of doing tasks that meet my goals, I am focusing on things that serve
the needs of others.  Generosity is the natural behavior resulting from this
transformation.  Jesus gave freely to me so I can pass the blessing on.

All three of these areas touch me at a place of emotional neediness. I long for
the Spirit of God to set me free from the unrealistic demands that tend to
dominate my life.  This is a essential transformation that will let me become
what I was truly intended to be.


## Mistakes or Sin?

A mistake is an error in our judgment that leads to a bad outcome.  They happen
because our thinking  is flawed.  It is unfortunate that they happen but they
are not evil.

Sin is rebellion against God. It is very intentional and filled with malice. We
reject God's truth and  refuse to follow his plans for our lives.  From the
smallest to the largest, all sin is built the same.  It is a willful rebellion
against the control of God over our lives.

The Bible talks a lot about the Kingdom of God, or the Kingdom of Heaven. This
is about who is making  the laws that you are following.  Are you a loyal
subject of the King or a would-be rebel lord seeking to gain the throne?  The
kingdom of self and the kingdom of God always oppose each other.  Sin happens
when we go over to the other side.

To fix a mistake we need better thinking. This can be done by applying more
effort or training.  Sin  on the other hand is an intentional act of rebellion
and can never be fixed by trying harder.   Rebellion is fixed through surrender
or victory over the reigning king.

God himself established a means of surrender that allows us to be fully restored to
the kingdom of God.   Rebels become family through the sacrifice that pays for
the entire rebellion. Justice is done and  the rebels are restored to good
standing.

There is only one possible avenue of restoration. Repentance.  There is no other
way.  If we call our  rebellion a simple mistake then we will never repent.
Mistakes do not need a savior.  Confessing  our sin makes us aware that we need
a savior and that makes us willing to repent.

Without repentance we are deciding to live in the  kingdom of self. We refuse to go
through the door marked "Repentance" that is the only way to God's kingdom.

This rhythm of confession and repentance should become a regular part of our
everyday lives, not  an exceptional thing we do occasionally.

Pick one area that you have been labeling "Mistake", that is really "Sin”.  What
will you do next to be fully restored?


