# The Source for What You Need

"So don't worry about where you will live or how you will pay your bills. These
types of things dominate the thoughts of unbelievers, but your heavenly Father
already knows all your needs. Seek the Kingdom of God above all else, and live
righteously, and he will give you everything you need. So don't worry about
tomorrow, for tomorrow will bring its own worries. Today's trouble is enough for
today." -- Jesus


Jesus is the only source of everything that is truly good in our lives.
Although this sounds like a platitude that every believer would agree with, I
often deny it by trusting in other things.

Accepting Jesus as our Lord is not a one-time act, but a continual posture of
the heart.  Each day presents many opportunities to seek or deny him.

He has a wonderful plan for each day of my life.  Yet, I frequently opt for my
own short-sighted goals instead.  I am often so blind to the implications of
doing this and the consequences of not pursuing him wholeheartedly.

I have been thinking about this process a lot lately.  I want to follow God in
every way.  At the same time, I want to be in control. This creates a built-in
conflict.

The bible teaches us that Jesus is the one that starts the work of redemption in
us. We can not muster either the desire or the ability in ourselves.

What is true at the beginning, holds throughout our lives.  He continually
sustains the transformation.  Will power is not enough to do the deep work
required.

I experience this on a personal level when I spend time alone with God.  I pick
a quiet and isolated spot and invite him to make me aware of his presence. This
gives him an opportunity to speak while I am consciously listening to him.

My practice is simply to look at him, while he looks at me.  This is sometimes a
supernatural experience where he touches my spirit and brings refreshing.  He
may bring his peace, plans, or correction to me in that quiet place of openness.

At other times, nothing much happens, but we enjoy each other's company.  These
times of solitude have a lingering effect throughout my day.  I am more aware of
his presence in the middle of life's turmoil.

This practice of being alone with God and quietly enjoying his presence has
become the most important activity that I have neglected for so many years.


## A Matter of Heart and Hands

The art of solitude is wrongly understood if it is seen as leading to withdrawal
from others. It is not meant to enhance the self at the cost of maintaining
concern for others. Instead, solitude is a way to enrich the self in order that
we may more fully join with others. Solitude is meant to enrich the practice of
community.

While community is the reality we are to live, solitude helps us to live there.
Nouwen says that "community ... is primarily a quality of the heart." It is not
primarily a matter of particular structures. It is first of all a recognition
that in the faces of other people, I am aware of Christ's call to
interdependence, sharing, serving, receiving, mutuality, encouragement, and
companionship. Community is thus, first of all, a particular vision of life.

But it also involves a practical joining together. Nouwen notes that "we will
never know what community is if we never come together in one place." Heart and
hands must therefore meet. Ideals must find a practical outworking. Our dreams
of cooperation and sharing life together must be realized with courage and
perseverance in an age characterized by independence, self-sufficiency, and
isolation.

In the quest of realizing our dreams, we need to make sure that the matter of
the heart does not get lost through a preoccupation with the structures of
community.

Charles R Ringma. Dare to Journey--with Henri Nouwen

