# Day 3: Where is the Joy?

As a life coach, Stacie would always ask clients two important questions:

- What are you celebrating?
- Where do you find joy?

These questions are crucial for our survival as we navigate through life. It's so easy for the challenges we face each day to steal away our joy. Especially during times of trauma, finding joy can be essential for our well-being.

Someone once told me that even if you win the rat race, you're still just a rat. Throughout my life, I've spent a lot of time running in circles, trying to move faster and accomplish more. But now I realize that this is not the ultimate goal.

Life can easily be wasted in constant striving. This will only lead to deep regret. The solution to this is to ask ourselves where our joy truly comes from.

## Wheat and Weeds

My life is filled with activity. I'm constantly doing something. But not every activity brings me joy. Some tasks drain my soul, and I try to avoid them as much as I can. On the other hand, there are activities that bring me immense joy. I believe this is true for everyone, although the specific activities may differ since we're all unique.

I see these soul-draining activities as weeds in a field. We never intend for them to grow, but they inevitably sprout everywhere. Removing them without damaging the healthy aspects is nearly impossible. Therefore, the focus should be on nurturing the activities that bring life and minimizing the ones that don't.

For a long time, I was like a weed farmer, allowing social obligations to dictate my priorities. But the new life I am building won't have room for shallow relationships and activities that don't bring joy. Moving forward, I need to prune everything and prioritize what "sparks joy."

## Sources of Joy

There are four activities that bring me to life. These have always been a part of me since I was a child. They define who I am and give me reasons to get up each morning.

These activities are ingrained in my psychology. I didn't choose them, but it took me years to identify them. You also have a similar list, although the specific details will be based on your own psychology.

The four things that bring me joy are:

* Creating
* Connecting
* Learning
* Enjoying



### Create


The most powerful drive in my life has always been the desire to create. Building software, writing, and teaching are all manifestation of this underlying desire.  

- An application prototype
- A 1000-word article
- A slide deck for lesson

My primary joy derives from creating something from concept to embodiment.  Of course this is enhanced by someone else acknowledging the value of what was produced.


### Connect


I find great joy in forming deep relationships with people I trust.  I have several lifelong friends who I share everything with.  But Stacie carried the full load of my relational needs. She was my PERSON, but now she is gone.

I must begin to reach out to those I trust and strengthen connection with them.  There is no one person that will be able to meet that need.  It will probably take five close friends to fill the gaping whole.

Shallow relationships have no value to me and I run from forced intimacy.  Being somewhat autistic, I find it difficult to conform to social norms, since it is hard for me to understand the emotions of others.  A party is the worst social setting for me.  I prefer one-on-one interactions.


### Learn


From childhood I have been a voracious reader.  My whole career has been on the leading edge of technology. But the past few years my focus has shifted to try to understand humans.  Psychology, history, politics, economics, and spirituality.  Why is the world so messed up?  Is there anything we can do to make it better?

Books are my primary source of learning.  Starting this last years I have been spending much of my time learning with the benefit of an AI research assistant.  It allows me to digest an entire book in a hour and learn a significant amount about a new topic in a day.

Being officially retired for the first time, I now have the luxury of spending as much time as I want learning whatever I choose.  No one is placing any demands on my time now.  This is indeed a great source of joy.


### Enjoy


Life can be really hard at times.  I strive to find the gems in the gravel. My nature I am drawn to what is wrong.  This can pull me into a pit of despair if I let it.

Each day I am looking for those beautiful moments that are worth celebrating. A fond memory, a kind word, laughing with my grandkids, and the beauty of nature.  These are gift to me.  I believe that every good gift comes from God, and I receive it as such.

Living in the moment and being fully awake and aware is a way to harvest joy.  We bring in the wheat and reject the weeds.  This is a choice.


## My Perfect Day

My perfect day ends with a sense of gratitude. It's a celebration of a day well-lived. This celebration naturally extends to a week, a month, a year, and a life well-lived. But for today, I will focus on celebrating this day.

As I look back and read what I've written, I hope it challenges others the way it challenged me. I want people to pause and consider, perhaps even shed a tear. I look at my creation and say, "it is good."

I was able to connect with at least one person on a deep level. We talked about our hopes, dreams, and fears. We respected each other even when we disagreed. I forgave someone who hurt me and showed kindness to an enemy.

I learned something new and fascinating. I can't wait to explore it further. I had the opportunity to extend my learning by sharing with others. I gained a new insight about myself or the world in which I live.

I was fully present and aware. I acknowledged both the trauma and joy in my life. I celebrate the joy and the gift of life that I've been given today.