# The Chistmas Blues

Today we took down the Christmas tree. It was a sad time in a sad season. Stacie loved Christmas. She loved the lights,
the decorations, the music, the food, the family, the gifts, and the whole season. She loved the whole thing.

As hard as this time is, I am also mindful of the tremendous gift that Stacie was to me. She was the greatest gift I
have ever received. She was God's gift to me. She was God with skin on.

On Christmas Eve, just several days after she died, I wrote a poem about the greatest gift. I am sharing it here as a
reminder of the gift that Stacie was to me.


## The Greatest Gift

by Mark Seaman

It's Christmas Eve, the time when we look forward to Christmas Day. We think about gifts to be received and gifts to be
given. I began pondering all the gifts I have been given for Christmas.

What is the greatest gift I have ever been given? I've been in church long enough to know that the Sunday School answer
is the baby Jesus. We are told that God left divinity to become a man, and that his first night on earth was spent in a
feed trough in a barn.

I believe this to be a true story but it is quite difficult for me to relate to. The mystery of all time is how God
could occupy a human body. This seems so surreal and conceptual and disconnected from the everyday experiences of my
life.

For the gospel to have power, it must reach into our lives in time and space. Otherwise it is simply a mythology, a set
of rituals, dogmas, and doctrines. For the gospel to be real there must be people whose lives are radically altered by
God. It cannot remain in the abstract as a set of teachings.

When I was 15 my goal was live the wild life and seek the maximum pleasure in each moment. I never expected or desired
to see my 20th birthday. Many of my friends at the time didn't. I was living a life of debauchery (within limits), and
without hope for anything more.

Then I had a dramatic encounter with God that put me on a different course. God invaded my time and my space, and forced
me to make a decision. My conversion took place over a couple of weeks as I shed the old values for new ones. I began
learning what it really meant to follow God.

It is said that the church is the body of Christ. In other words, his followers can demonstrate what God is like. We
need to see people that are actually following God in order to understand who God is.

The Christmas story is one of God making himself evident to all of us: first in Jesus, then in his people, then in
specific people that he sends into our lives. The fancy word for this in "incarnation".

It is somewhat hard for me to relate emotionally to the Christmas story. It was so long ago in a cultural context that
is unfamiliar. It is also difficult to embrace the presence of God as seen in the church as a whole. It seems so corrupt
and disfigured.

What I need is a real tangible person that shows me what it is to pursue God's will in every facet of life. I need
someone who can do more than teach me about God. They need to be able to demonstrate love, joy, peace, patience,
kindness, gentleness, goodness, faithfulness, and self-control.

We talk about the need to see Jesus with skin on, a real human that is filled with the Spirit of God and can demonstrate
how to live. A few weeks after my conversion I met such a person. "God With Us" came to me in the form of a naive
Baptist girl that I would soon fall in love with and spend the rest of lives together.

From our first kiss there was no escape. She embodied the very presence of God. Even with all her faults, I have never
met another human that so fully lived the gospel. God With Us. God With Me. She taught me about what it truly means to
live in God's kingdom.

Four years later we committed our lives to one another. Together we raised kids and grandkids, bought houses and cars,
traveled the world, went to school, pursued careers, and did everything that anyone can do.

But through it all there was the unshakable assurance that she was God's gift to me. Every good and perfect gift is from
God. Stacie was exactly what I needed. She was certainly a gift that demonstrates his unfailing love for me.

She has recently left me on the earth without her. We scheduled her memorial on our 45th anniversary. Now that she is
gone I still feel a lingering presence of the goodness of God. I know that what attracted me most to Stacie was the
Spirit's presence in her.

That is without a doubt the greatest gift of my life!

