# Day 18: Writing at Sea

As a writer I find great joy in the act of writing.  For me it is a way to convert concepts into
words, much like teaching, or building software.  Words become the vehicle of self-expression and
lead me toward a deeper understanding.

There is something about a Seaman writing while at sea.  It sounds slightly romantic. Pondering the
next chapter, sipping a glass of wine on our balcony while the sun melts into the ocean.  I think
is has a certain appeal.

I write about technology, lifestyle, spirituality, and my life story.  Several years ago I started
on telling my life story.  I have had a number of bazaar situations and experiences that few others
have had.  It was time to put it into writing.

As the days passed on the endless sea, I had hoped to complete my
autobiography - a project that was put on hold due to more pressing work goals. 
 
Stacie has helped several others write and publish their life stories, and I was going to help her
tell her story.  She also has had a very interesting and complex life.  She had so much to say
about how to live a rich life and how to live out a destiny.  But time slipped through our fingers
before we could realize our shared dream.

This voyage became a poignant reminder of all that had been taken from us. We yearned for a future
free from the relentless rat race, where we could celebrate our lives together. The very idea of
embarking on this journey alone was unimaginable, a painful reminder of the void that Stacie's
absence had created.

Though we already had travel plans, I had no intention of following through. The trip became a
constant reminder of all that had been lost.  The mere thought of venturing out into the world
without her was overwhelming. The thought of taking a voyage by myself was utterly unthinkable.

I left the reservations in place, but had no intention of going.  There were many other issues that
required my attention after Stacie's death.
I have been mourning the not only Stacie's loss but the loss of my life as well.

The trip became a symbol for me of what was lost.  I believed that I would probably not ever have
a desire to travel abroad.  We had done everything together for decades and the prospect of traveling without
Stacie filled me with dread and sadness.

That chapter of my life was over and I mourned the loss deeply.

