# Day 52 - What Do I Have?

When I look ahead, sometimes all I can see is uncertainty and doubt. It’s a common fear we all share, the fear of not
having enough resources to achieve success. But the reality is, I have more than I may realize. I have the building
blocks needed to create the life I desire – it’s just a matter of recognizing and utilizing them.

It is important to understand the resources that I have to work with.  Doing an inventory gives me confidence that I
have everything that I need already.  With Stacie's death my life has changed drastically.  Everything that I valued was
tied in some way to her.  It is easy for me to believe that everything has been taken away.  But there is much that
remains for me to work with.


## Reality Check

In my journey to thrive, I need to understand that I already possess the essential resources for success. Money may be a
resource, but it’s not the only one. Wealth, power, and status can all play a role in my life, but they are not the sole
determinants of success. People, including relationships, connections, reputation, and influence, are also key resources
that can help me build my path. Experience, whether in the form of skills, knowledge, or life experiences, contributes
to my growth and development. And lastly, personality traits, strengths, weaknesses, and tendencies, all shape how I
navigate through life.


## How to Thrive

To thrive in life, I need to adopt an attitude of effectiveness and contentment. Being disgruntled, spoiled, or cynical
in the face of challenges will only hold me back. Contentment is not about settling for less but appreciating what I
have while striving for more. Greed, on the other hand, can lead me down a path of dissatisfaction and emptiness. The
key to fulfilling my goals lies in being effective with the resources I have at my disposal.


## Making the Most of What I Have

A quote that resonates with me is, “Do what you can, where you are, with what you have.” This mindset encourages me to
make the most of my current situation and resources, rather than waiting for the perfect moment or more resources to
come my way. It’s about taking action and making the most of what I have in the present moment. As Jesus said, “To whom
much is given, much will be required.” I must acknowledge the resources I already possess and use them wisely.


## Embracing My Basic Resources

Reflecting on my basic resources – money, people, experience, and personality – helps me understand the tools I have at
my disposal. Money may seem like the most tangible resource, but it’s not the only one that matters. People, with their
relationships, reputations, and influences, are invaluable resources that can support me in my journey. Experience,
whether gained through skills, knowledge, or life lessons, provides me with the wisdom to overcome challenges. And my
personality traits, strengths, weaknesses, and tendencies, are what shape my approach to life and interactions with
others.


## Taking Action

Instead of lamenting what I don’t have, I choose to focus on what I do have. By recognizing and embracing the resources
at my disposal, I can thrive in life. It's all about using what I have effectively and being content with the journey.
The path to success starts with acknowledging and utilizing the resources I already possess.

