# Day 56 - What Will I Give?

In life, I have come to realize that focusing on what I can give rather than what I can take brings
about a sense of fulfillment and purpose. It's about practicing generosity in all aspects of my
life. I believe in the saying "Freely received, freely give." By building margin in my time,
energy, and money, I am better able to respond to the needs of others. It's not about giving until
it hurts, but about giving from a place of abundance and willingness.

By shifting my focus from what I can take to what I can give, I have found a deep sense of purpose
and fulfillment in my life. Practicing generosity, detaching from outcomes, focusing on essential
needs, and clarifying commitments have all contributed to my ability to give freely and
wholeheartedly to others. It's not about keeping score or expecting something in return, but about
selflessly giving and sharing the abundance I have been blessed with.


## Expectations

Every task that we do has expectations of both cost and benefit.  Sometimes these expectations
are inconsistent with reality.  My sense of well-being can often be tied to unrealistic expectation.
This can lead to feeling entitled and disappointed.  Detaching from any outcome allows me
to accept whatever happens as an OK result.

I have learned that detaching myself from inappropriate expectations is crucial in focusing on what
I can give. It's about deciding on where to invest my resources – whether it be time, money, or
energy – and choosing wisely. By detaching myself from the outcomes of my actions, I am able to
maintain a sense of peace and contentment regardless of the results.

Once my expectations have been tamed I can focus on the value that I bring into each engagement.
I aim to maximize the contribution I make, without regard to the reward I will receive.


## Needs & Wants

Understanding my own needs and wants is key in determining what I can give to others. I have
identified my essential needs – physical, emotional, social, and purpose-driven – and focus on
fulfilling those first. 
With each commitment this knowledge lets me communicate my basic needs and improves the odds of
a good outcome.  Ambiguity breeds conflict.

Surrendering my wants and desires allows me to appreciate what I have in
the present moment and be grateful for the blessings in my life.  Once my true needs have been met
then anything else is optional.

This lets me concentrate on my contribution rather than my reward.  I choose to be driven by an 
internal sense of accomplishment and have the flexibility to invest myself without the need to make
an income.  I view this as a luxury that gives me lots of freedom.


## Clarify Commitments

Clarifying my commitments to others helps me to effectively give of myself without overextending. By
communicating my expectations and boundaries, I am able to maintain healthy relationships and avoid
resentment. 

It's important to prune commitments that no longer serve me and make new commitments
that align with my values and priorities. Ultimately, I prioritize my commitments over setting
rigid goals, allowing flexibility in how I can give to others.

I am constantly reviewing my commitment and making adjustments to ensure that I am living consistently 
with the values.  The amount of time that I can invest weekly is a fixed quantity so I much budget 
it wisely.



