# Day 90 - Road to Transformation

As I rebuild my life, it must be built on a solid foundation. This requires a process of constant transformation which
culminates in wholeness and health.

My new life is a journey of transformation involving self-discovery, growth, and healing. I desire for all parts of my
character to be integrated together and healthy. It is about being complete, with integrity in all that I do, say,
think, and feel. 

It is a journey of letting go of the old and embracing the new. This road to transformation is not easy, but I know I am
on the right path when I abide by certain rules to thrive by.  I've developed a set of principles that guide me in each
areas of my psyche.


## Awareness

My journey towards wholeness begins with awareness. I need to look at myself from the outside in,
examining my behaviors, relationships, beliefs, and emotions. 

I like to think about my psychology as being composed of four main parts.

* Behavior - What I do
* Relationships - What I say as I interact with others
* Beliefs - What I think and dwell on
* Emotions - What I feel and how I react emotionally

Awareness starts at the surface level, but it is important to dig deeper to uncover the root causes.
My behavior is always defined by the deeper levels of my psyche.
The deepest level that is the core of my being is the emotional level. When this is healthy the other levels, 
fall in place.

Awareness is about being honest with myself and acknowledging the areas that need improvement. It is about embracing the
truth, no matter how difficult it may be. It is about digging deeper within myself to uncover the answers that will lead
me to toward fulfillment. 

To understand what is going on in my soul. I start by undestanding my behavior, then my relationships, then my beliefs and
finally my emotions. It is very difficult to understand my emotions, until I can uncover prolems that exist at the outer
levels.

Moving from the outside in, I ask why that problem exists. I keep asking why until I get to the root cause. This is the same
problem solving technique used in engineering complex system.  The human soul is a complex system, and the same techniques
apply.


## Transformation

True transformation starts in the innermost parts.  The emotional core is ultimately what drives my behavior,
relationships, and beliefs. True transformation is about healing the emotional core, which will then allow the other
parts of my psyche to fall into place.

When the core is healthy, the other parts of my psyche will be healthy. It is relatively pointless to change behavior
directly without considering the deeper issues.  Social issues are always tied to deeper emotional issues.  

While awareness comes from the outside in (what I do, say, think, feel), transformation comes from the inside out (what
I feel, think, say, do). Healing and wholeness start at the emotional level and move to the behavioral.  True
change move from the private to the public self.

Transformation requires enormous courage.  That is why most of us avoid it. Without humility, honesty, and surrender, 
no transformation is possible.  It is about letting go of the old and embracing the new. It is about being open to
change.

It is about surrendering to the process and allowing myself to be changed. I believe that there is a supernatural power
at work within me, guiding me towards becoming the person I am meant to be. As I undergo this transformation, I know
that spiritual fruit will manifest in my life.  In particular, I will be more loving, joyful, peaceful, patient, kind,
good, faithful, gentle, and self-controlled.

While the end result is a life of wholeness and health, the journey is not easy. There is always a struggle between the
old and the new. There is pain involved in letting go of the old and embracing the new. 


## The road ahead

As I continue along the road to transformation, I remind myself of the prime directive – to live a life that is in
alignment with my true purpose. It is not just about doing things, but also about being. This journey is about realizing
that this is my life, and I have the power to shape it into one of complete fulfillment.

I am no longer focused on accomplishments, but on becoming the person I am meant to be. I am no longer seeking
validation from others, but will be content knowing that my relationships are healty and fruitful.  My days of chasing
after fame and fortune are over. I am now focused on living an authentic life of purpose and meaning.

Whatever I accomplish or create will be a byproduct of my transformation. I am no longer seeking to change the world,
but instead to live out my personal destiny.

I have no idea what the future holds, but I am excited to see where this road leads. Being the person I am meant to be
is my primary goal. I now see the future with greater clarity than I ever have before. I know it will be a life worth living.

