# Day 91 - From Death to Life

## From Life to Death

The last year began with a time of great opportunity and boundless optimism. The world
seemed to be at my fingertips, and I was at the top of my game. However, my overcommitment
eventually led to a collapse that shook me to my core. I found myself at a crossroads, facing a
valley of death that seemed insurmountable.

By the end of the year I lost everything I once valued.  My wife, career, joy, motivation, dreams,
and my identity.  Stacie's death was just one aspect of a series of losses that overtook me.
By December of 2023 my old life was gone with no chance of restoring that life.
I entered into a zombie existence with my physical body still alive but the rest of my being lost 
in a desert wasteland.


## Valley of Death

In the valley of death, I felt like a dead man walking, harassed by
the four horsemen of Anger, Fear, Sadness, and Shame. I believed that someday I would regain a life,
but for a time that I would have to get through each day.  It seemed likely to me that I would wander 
the wasteland for a few years without hope, joy, or peace.

I have followed God for most of my life and know that he breathes life into dead people.  In the
valley I began to see how I had been trying to serve two masters in my old life.
Much of what drove my life decision was based on my ego needs.

I began to see ways that my life had veered off track. 
It was in this dark place that I began to walk with God and understand what his will was for my
new life.  Over several week I gained a fresh perspective on life
as I waited for a new beginning.

Sorting through what happened in 2023 was very complex and took months to sort through.  But 
gradually pieces began to fall in place.  Things that I had wrestled with for years were clear
for the first time in my life.  I finally understood unresolved ego needs that were driving my 
behavior and relationships.


##  The Dead Shall Rise

The four horsemen continued to ravage but gradually their impact lessened. Despite the darkness
surrounding me, I knew that there was still hope for a fresh start. I began to prepare the soil of
my soul, allowing for supernatural germination to take place. Like a plant in need of water and
sun, I nurtured my spirit with love and forgiveness. Slowly but surely, I began to see the fruits
of my labor manifest effortlessly before my eyes.

We do the work and God does the work.  It is a partnership. I surrounded myself with mentors and 
others that would carry me.  I listened to others in a way I never have in my old life.  Others
carried me until I could limp alone.

Suddenly on Day 86 of my new life, I was surprised to realize that I had hope for the future.  As
an idealist I live in a world that doesn't exist.  I see how things should be, and am disappointed
by the reality in front of me.  But during the last year I lost the vision of the future and the
hopes and dreams that pull me forward.

Now I was able to see the life I hope for. I am no longer living as one without hope.  I began to
imagine a good life for the first time in over a year.  This life will be different than my old 
life.  I am finally at peace and will be free from old chains that bound me up.


## Transformation

The transformation I experienced this week is the greatest of my life.  I have moved from hopelessness to
a clear vision of the future.  In December I lost my life and now I have a new one that is full of
hope and promise.  I have been transformed in a way that I never thought possible. 

I truly feel the impact
of moving from life to death and back again.  My journey is far from complete but I have had the
fundamental breakthrough that I have been longing for over the past 90 days.  I am now poised to
begin the restoration and healing.  I am alive again!

In embracing this new way of living, I have found a sense of peace and fulfillment that I never
thought possible. My journey from death to new life has been transformative, teaching me valuable
lessons about resilience, faith, and the power of personal growth. As I continue to walk this path,
I look forward to the adventures and blessings that await me, knowing that I am now living my best
life.

