# Valentine's Day

## Rolling Solo on Valentine's Day

Today is my first Valentine's Day alone in 45 years. It's a bittersweet feeling; a mix of nostalgia, sorrow, and
gratitude for the love I have experienced. As I sit here, surrounded by memories of our extraordinary love story, I
can't help but reflect on the beautiful journey my late spouse Stacie and I shared.


## 25th Anniversary Celebration

Exactly 20 years ago today, we celebrated our 25th anniversary. It feels like a lifetime ago, yet the memories are as
vivid as ever. We hosted a grand party at Christ Community Church, inviting our closest friends and beloved family. It
was more than just a celebration of love; it was an opportunity for us to renew our vows and embark on another 25 years
of togetherness.

That event proved to be a pivotal moment in our relationship. It was a public declaration of our unending love and
affection for one another, a testament to the strength of our bond. Amid the inevitable stresses of careers, family
crises, and the ups and downs of everyday life, we recognized the need to celebrate the incredible relationship we had
built together.

Recently, I've found solace in watching the three videos we recorded for that special occasion. Each one holds a
treasure trove of memories, bringing back a flood of emotions and reminding me of the love we shared.


## Stories of Our Life Together

The third video—a collection of stories about our life together—is perhaps the most precious. It captures moments of
laughter, tears, and countless shared memories. Watching this video brings Stacie's voice back to life, and I find
comfort in hearing her infectious laughter and seeing her radiant smile once again.

[Watch the Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iXMJhSLY7VI)


## Slide Show

The first video is a heartfelt slide show, showcasing the journey of our lives, both separately and together. The images
capture the essence of who we were at that time—two individuals who had reached the age of 45, with grown children and a
lifetime of experiences behind us. Looking at those photographs takes me back to moments of pure bliss and intense joy.

[Watch the Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rI23hCG_QO8)


## Remarriage Ceremony

The second video revolves around our second marriage ceremony. In this deeply personal and meaningful moment, we stood
before our loved ones, vowing to recommit ourselves to each other. It was a profound reminder of the love we had, and a
promise to continue nurturing that love in the years to come.

[Watch the Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XZuWLrPwSNY)


## 12 Days of Valentine

To complement these videos, I stumble upon a poem that I wrote on Valentine's Day a few years ago. Titled "12 Days of
Valentine," it encapsulates the immense love we shared and the cherished moments we treasured together. Reading those
words, it feels like a tribute to Stacie and our journey, a testament of the profound connection we had.

[12 Days of Valentine](/poem/Valentine.md)


## A Lifeline of Memories

These videos have become priceless to me. After losing Stacie, they have been my lifeline, keeping her memory alive in
my heart. In moments of solitude and grief, I turn to these recordings, finding solace and healing. Each time I watch
them, it's as if I'm transported back to those beautiful moments we shared, reliving the love that transcended time.

As I reflect on this Valentine's Day, alone but surrounded by memories, I'm reminded of the incredible love story Stacie
and I had. Our journey was full of highs and lows, but through it all, our love remained steadfast. Though she may be
physically gone, her love and presence continue to guide me. And perhaps, by sharing these videos and poems, they may
stir emotions and touch the hearts of others as well.

So today, as I spend my first Valentine's Day alone in 45 years, I am grateful for the love we had, and I hold onto the
memories that sustain me. Love may be ephemeral, but the impact it leaves lasts a lifetime.