# Operation Plowshare

At the Nevada Test Site during the Cold War era, there was a unique and controversial experiment known as *Project
Plowshare*. This project aimed to explore the potential use of nuclear bombs for civil engineering purposes,
particularly for large-scale construction projects like creating harbors, canals, or even highways.

The idea was based on the belief that nuclear explosions, due to their immense power, could be harnessed for peaceful
purposesâ€”specifically, to move large amounts of earth and rock quickly and efficiently. Proponents of Project Plowshare
imagined that nuclear devices could carve out artificial harbors, create underground storage facilities, or facilitate
mining and extraction processes by blasting away vast amounts of overburden.

One of the most notable experiments under this program was *Operation Plowshare's* *Sedan test* in 1962. The Sedan test
involved detonating a 104-kiloton nuclear device underground at the Nevada Test Site. The explosion created a massive
crater, about 1,280 feet in diameter and 320 feet deep, displacing over 12 million tons of earth. While it demonstrated
that a nuclear bomb could indeed move large quantities of soil, the test also resulted in significant radioactive
fallout, which raised public health concerns.

Despite some initial enthusiasm, Project Plowshare faced several challenges. The main issues were the environmental and
health risks associated with radioactive fallout, the high cost of the operations, and growing public opposition to
nuclear testing in general. The promise of using nuclear explosions for peaceful purposes was ultimately overshadowed by
the risks, and the project was eventually discontinued in the 1970s.

The legacy of Project Plowshare remains a curious chapter in the history of nuclear testing, illustrating both the
ambitions and the hubris of the nuclear age.

The Sedan test was part of Operation Plowshare, which aimed to explore the use of nuclear explosions for peaceful
purposes, such as civil engineering projects. Conducted on July 6, 1962, at the Nevada Test Site, the Sedan test was one
of the most significant nuclear detonations within the program. Here are the details:

### Purpose

The primary goal of the Sedan test was to evaluate the feasibility of using a nuclear explosion to excavate large
amounts of earth and rock, potentially for projects like creating artificial harbors, canals, or mining operations. It
was intended to demonstrate how nuclear explosions could be used as a tool for large-scale earth-moving tasks.

### Device and Yield

The nuclear device used in the Sedan test had a yield of 104 kilotons of TNT, which was significantly larger than most
conventional explosives. The device was buried 635 feet (194 meters) below the surface of the earth.

### Results and Impact

- **Crater Formation**: The explosion created a massive crater, known as the Sedan Crater. The crater is approximately
  1,280 feet (390 meters) in diameter and 320 feet (100 meters) deep, displacing about 12 million tons of earth.
- **Radioactive Fallout**: One of the significant consequences of the Sedan test was the generation of radioactive
  fallout, which spread over a large area. It resulted in the release of substantial amounts of radioactive material
  into the atmosphere, which was carried downwind and detected across the United States.
- **Environmental and Health Concerns**: The fallout from the Sedan test contributed to public concerns about the safety
  and environmental impact of nuclear testing. It led to heightened awareness of the risks associated with nuclear
  explosions, even when conducted for peaceful purposes.

### Legacy

The Sedan test remains one of the most well-known experiments under Project Plowshare due to the sheer size of the
crater and the extensive radioactive fallout it produced. The test illustrated the potential power of nuclear explosions
for civil engineering but also highlighted the significant risks, particularly the spread of radiation. The site of the
Sedan Crater is still visible today and is one of the largest man-made craters in the world.

The Sedan test ultimately contributed to the decline of Project Plowshare, as the environmental and health hazards
associated with nuclear excavation became increasingly clear. The idea of using nuclear explosions for civil engineering
was gradually abandoned due to these concerns.