# Quantified Learning: Enhancing Skill Development

Have you ever wondered how much time and effort it takes to truly master a new skill? Whether it's
coding, playing a musical instrument, or learning a new language, the process of acquiring
expertise requires a significant investment of time and energy. While talent and aptitude certainly
play a role in this journey, the concept of quantified learning suggests that there are specific
milestones and timelines that can help individuals gauge their progress.

We can quantify the amount of learning that must occur to master new skills.
I propose a framework that categorizes individuals into different levels of
expertise, ranging from Novice to Expert. Each level is associated with a percentage of learning,
indicating how much time and effort individuals at that stage invest in acquiring new knowledge and
skills. According to this framework, Novices devote 100% of their time to learning, while Experts
only spend 6% of their time on learning activities.

This division allows individuals to have a clear understanding of the learning curve involved in
becoming proficient in a particular field. It also highlights the fact that as one progresses from
Novice to Expert, the emphasis shifts from learning to productivity. However, it's essential to
recognize that even at the highest level of expertise, there is still a requirement for ongoing
learning and development to stay updated in a rapidly evolving world.

To further understand the concept of quantified learning, let's delve into the specifics. Each new
task demands a certain baseline of learning, which is akin to a debt that must be repaid before one
can truly excel in that area. This required learning is comparable to a down payment that
individuals must make to ensure continued growth and expertise. The half-life of this required
learning is an indicator of how long it takes for the knowledge and skills to become obsolete or in
need of updating.

For instance, a Novice typically spends 100% of their time learning, meaning that every task they
undertake requires a full base of learning. As they progress and become a Beginner, they allocate
50% of their time to learning and 50% to productivity. This means that for every new task, they
only need to repay 50% of the initial learning debt. As one advances from Competent to Proficient
and then Expert, the amount of time spent on learning decreases, as does the repayment of the
learning debt.

Quantified learning can be likened to a financial investment, where one earns interest over time. As
individuals progress through the different levels of expertise, they accumulate knowledge and
skills that compound, enabling them to become more efficient and effective in their chosen field.
This gradual yet incremental growth is what distinguishes a Novice from an Expert.

Let's consider an example to illustrate this concept. Imagine a software engineer who is a Competent
level learner. They have been working in the industry for a while and have acquired a solid
foundation of knowledge and skills. Suppose they are assigned a new project that requires a certain
level of learning. As a Competent, they need to allocate 25% of their time to learning. This means
that only 25% of the learning debt associated with that task needs to be repaid. The remaining 75%
is based on their existing expertise and can be immediately directed towards productivity.

By understanding the principles of quantified learning, individuals can optimize their skill
development. They can identify the areas where they need to focus their learning efforts and plan
their time accordingly. Moreover, quantified learning emphasizes the importance of continuous
learning even at higher levels of expertise. It reinforces the notion that one can never stop
learning and growing in their field.

Quantifying the required learning provides a framework for understanding the progression from
Novice to Expert and highlights the changing balance between learning and productivity. By
recognizing the required base of learning for each task and understanding the half-life of this
learning debt, individuals can optimize their skill development and become more proficient in their
chosen fields. Ultimately, quantified learning catalyzes the journey towards mastery, enabling
individuals to achieve their full potential and remain relevant in an ever-changing world.

![Productivity and Experience](img/HalfLife1000.png)

This graph shows how expertise grows over time.  It also demonstrates the productivity increase
that occurs as hours of practice create learning opportunities.
This chart is based on experimental observations of myself and others over the last decade.  It is
also consistent with the software development literature. 

Learning is an exponential decay.  It revolves around a half-life of ignorance of 1000 hours. At
this point 50% of the work time is spent learning and 50% is spent doing the required task.


