# Teaching

Teaching is a crucial part of my life with God. It is not just about acquiring knowledge or filling
my head with information. Teaching is about learning to think and live like Jesus, embodying His
truth and love in every aspect of my life.

The nature of truth is something I have wrestled with for many years. In a world that values
relativism and personal opinions, it can be challenging to hold fast to the absolute truth of God's
word. But I have found that the more I dive into scripture and seek understanding, the more I am
convinced of its truth and relevance for my life.

While truth is always consistent with the scripture it is not limited by what is found in the Bible
or any other sacred writings.  Truth is often found in unexpected places if we are willing to see
it.  I find that fiction and non-fiction stories often illuminate new truths.

False teachers are a reality in the world today. It is crucial to exercise discernment and test
everything against the truth of Scripture. False teaching can be subtle and enticing, but it leads
to destruction and bondage. As followers of Jesus, we must be vigilant and discerning, holding fast
to the truth and protecting ourselves and others from deception.

Discernment is a skill that can be cultivated through prayer, study, and the guidance of the Holy
Spirit. It is the ability to distinguish between what is true and what is false, what is of God and
what is of the world. Discernment requires humility and a willingness to be corrected and
challenged. It is not about being judgmental or critical, but about seeking wisdom and
understanding.

Teaching is an essential aspect of our life with God. It shapes our values, beliefs, and actions.
What we consume, both in terms of information and experiences, affects who we become. Therefore, it
is crucial that we engage in sound teaching that helps us discern the true from the false,
challenges our existing beliefs, and encourages us to think critically. In this article, I will
explore the importance of sound teaching and how it can empower us to navigate the complexities of
the world we live in.

Sound teaching is essential for personal growth, intellectual development, and the
well-being of society as a whole. It empowers us to discern the true from the false, challenges our
existing beliefs, and encourages us to think critically. By engaging in sound teaching, we can
navigate the complexities of the world with wisdom and discernment, helping create a more
compassionate and just society. So, let us embrace the power of sound teaching and commit ourselves
to seek truth, challenge our assumptions, and promote the common good.
