# The Vikings

The Vikings, renowned explorers and warriors from Scandinavia, had a profound impact on the history and culture of
Europe during the Viking Age, which spanned from the late 8th century to the early 11th century.

Originating from the rugged lands of present-day Norway, Sweden, and Denmark, the Vikings embarked on daring voyages,
sailing across treacherous seas in their iconic longships. Their thirst for adventure and their desire for plunder
motivated them to explore distant lands, leaving their mark on our historical landscape.

During the late 8th century, the Vikings began expanding their influence beyond their homelands. They ventured westward,
raiding the coasts of neighboring lands such as England, Scotland, and Ireland. Their swift and brutal raids terrified
the local populations, who were ill-prepared for the perseverance and ferocity of these Norse invaders.

But the Vikings were not mere pillagers; they were also skilled traders. Their seafaring abilities allowed them to
establish trade routes that stretched from the Baltic Sea to the Mediterranean, enabling them to bring exotic goods and
precious metals back to their homelands. This lucrative trade network contributed to the prosperity and growth of Viking
society.

The Viking Age reached its pinnacle in the 9th century when the Vikings expanded their horizons far beyond Europe. Led
by famous explorers such as Leif Erikson, they sailed westward and settled in Iceland and Greenland. It is believed that
these fearless adventurers even reached the shores of North America, centuries before Christopher Columbus.

Viking society was organized around a chieftain-based system, with jarls and kings ruling over their respective
territories. Their society was also characterized by the strong influence of mythology and religion. The Norse gods,
such as Odin, Thor, and Loki, played a significant role in Viking religious beliefs, and their pantheon of deities
shaped their worldview.

Despite their fearsome reputation as ruthless plunderers, the Vikings also valued art and craftsmanship. They produced
intricate metalwork, carved wooden sculptures, and exquisite jewelry. Exhibiting a mastery of intricate patterns and
motifs, these artifacts serve as a testament to the artistic talent of the Vikings.

As the Viking Age drew to a close, the influence of these seafaring warriors waned. The Scandinavian societies
transitioned from raiding and conquest to more settled ways of life. Christianity also began to spread across the
region, leading to a decline in Viking pagan beliefs.

However, the legacy of the Vikings endures. Their explorations opened up new trade routes and laid the foundation for
future European conquests. Their tales and sagas continue to captivate our imagination, as we marvel at the bravery and
audacity of these fierce Scandinavian warriors.

![Vikings](img/Vikings.webp)


## My People

2000 years ago my people were called **Barbarians**.

Under the command of  Arminius, we decimated three Roman legions in the German forests to block the advance of Rome.  We
changed the world.  Rome was to make no further advance into our heartland.

1400 years ago my people. were call **Saxon**.

The lure of expansion brought us to the islands to the west.  After the natives were subdued we built a good life in
this beautiful land.  We built kingdoms and churches and began to amass wealth.

1200 years ago my people. were called **Norsemen**.

Our lives were hard in the north and we needed to go viking to survive.  Our people built tens-of-thousands of long
boats so we could settle in lands currently occupied by others.  We came like a flood with fire and axe in hand to make
a better life.  We fought, we settled, and we ruled.

1000 years ago my people were called **Norman**.

Our people were at Hastings when the great battle changed history.  We fought and died on both sides.  We were part of
the subjugation of the island nation and the crusades that followed to retake the Holy Land.

800 years ago my people were called **Plantagenet**.

We fought in the Holy Land and setup the Kingdom of Heaven to rule the heathen with a fist of iron.  We ruthlessly
suppressed rebellions in Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Bordeaux, and Brittany.  We built 1000 castles as mighty fortresses
to protect the rule of law.  We grew tired of fighting but it had become who we were.   We opposed King John and made
him sign a document that limited his power, but he made us pay with our lives. We rebelled against Edward and were
soundly defeated.

600 years ago my people were called **English**.

We were decimated by plague, 100 years war, and the Wars of the Roses.   Half of my people died within five short years.
Life was hard, short, and brutal. A few of us were from noble families, but most were serfs and peasants.  We lived at
the will of the lords and were frequently called upon to fight for their honor. This was a time of great suffering.  

400 years ago my people were called **Tudor**.

My people were part of the great religious wars that tore through Europe.  They watched as John Wycliffe burned for
translating the scripture into modern language. They fought with each other as Gustav Adolfos tore through the German
countryside.  They were part of the church rebellions of Henry, Luther, and Calvin. Some of my ancestors fled to the New
World in response.  They saw America as an opportunity to start anew. Some of my people were friends with William Penn.

200 years ago my people were called **British**.

Our people ruled the seas and were the disputed rulers of the world.  We have colonies every where are across the earth.
Our army and navy were the greatest in the world, but we were at constant war.  Our colonies had a desire to break away
so the military was called upon the destroy all rebellions.  Many of my ancestors fought in the revolution. Meriwether
Lewis explored the west.

100 years ago my people were called **American**.

We settled the Kentucky wilderness and the mountains of Pennsylvania, rich with coal. My ancestors owned slaves and
fought for their freedom.  My people died on both side of the Civil War.  My people continue the legacy of that primal
struggle for human decency and honor. We seek to both repair and preserve the great stain of slavery on the soul of
America.

My people have been shaped largely by the almost constant conflict we have endured. My people have often been on both
sides of the fight. We have been both Victors and Victims (Oppressors and Oppressed).  I am proud of those that have
fought for justice and ashamed of those who have fought against it.  But this is my family legacy. It is part of who I
am.

