# Lesson 14 - Milestone 4 - Design

In Milestone 4, the Software Architect Role plays a crucial role in ensuring the quality and integrity of
the software application. The designer is responsible for the architecture of the application,
overseeing the implementation process, and ensuring that the software meets all the requirements
and performs as expected.

Through their expertise in designing robust architectures, implementing design patterns, providing
feedback through code reviews, and validating performance and scalability, the software architect
ensures that the software application is of high quality and meets the desired standards.

### Design a robust and scalable architecture

The software architect's first goal is to design an architecture that is robust and scalable. This
means designing a system that can handle the anticipated workload and can easily adapt to future
requirements. The software architect should create a detailed architectural design document that
outlines the overall structure of the application, including the various components, modules, and
their interactions. The deliverable for this goal is the architectural design document, which
should be reviewed and approved by the development team.

### Implement architectural design patterns

Once the architecture is designed, the software architect should work closely with the development
team to ensure that the architectural design patterns are implemented correctly. This includes
enforcing the use of design patterns such as MVC (Model-View-Controller), Dependency Injection, and
Observer to ensure code reusability, loose coupling, and separation of concerns. The software
architect should conduct regular code reviews to ensure that the design patterns are being followed
consistently. The deliverable for this goal is a codebase that demonstrates the correct
implementation of the architectural design patterns.

### Perform code reviews and provide feedback

As the software architect, it is important to review the codebase regularly to identify any design
or implementation issues. Conducting code reviews helps ensure that the codebase adheres to coding
standards, follows best practices, and is well-structured. The software architect should provide
constructive feedback to the development team on areas that need improvement and suggest
alternative approaches if necessary. The deliverable for this goal is a documented code review
report, which includes the identified issues and recommendations for improvement.

### Validate performance and scalability

One of the key responsibilities of the software architect is to validate the performance and
scalability of the software application. This involves conducting performance testing to measure
the application's response time, throughput, and resource utilization under different load
scenarios. The software architect should also validate the application's scalability by simulating
increased user loads and monitoring the system's ability to handle the increased demand. The
deliverable for this goal is a performance and scalability test report, which includes the test
results and any recommendations for optimizing performance or scaling the system.

