# Creative Process of Writing


## Development Stages

An idea goes through an entire development process before it is ready to publish.  The journey 
from a raw idea to a publication requires a great deal of persistence.

Adam Grant, an organizational psychologist and bestselling author, has written extensively about his
writing process. In his book "Originals: How Non-Conformists Move the World," he shares his method
for generating and refining ideas, as well as his strategies for overcoming writer's block.

He defines several distinct aspects of the development process.

- Idea generation
- Incubation
- Feedback
- Iteration

Overall, Grant's process emphasizes the importance of generating a large quantity of ideas, seeking
feedback from others, and iterating and refining one's work over time. He also emphasizes the
importance of persistence and resilience in the face of the challenges that inevitably arise during
the writing process.


## Idea generation

Start by generating as many ideas as possible, without censoring or judging them.
This "brainstorming without borders" uses various techniques to stimulate creativity, such as
mind-mapping, free-writing, and asking provocative questions.

Idea generation is the process of creating and developing new ideas, whether for a creative project,
a business venture, or personal growth. It's the starting point for any innovation or progress, and
it's a crucial step in the writing process.

There are many different techniques for generating ideas, and what works best will depend on the
individual and the situation. However, some common strategies for idea generation include:

* **Brainstorming**: This involves generating as many ideas as possible, without censoring or judging
  them. This can be done individually or in a group, and it can involve using techniques such as
  mind-mapping, free-writing, or simply asking questions and exploring possibilities.
* **Research**: Sometimes, the best ideas come from exploring existing information and knowledge. This
  can involve reading books, articles, and blogs, attending events and conferences, or talking to
  experts in a particular field.
* **Constraints**: Sometimes, setting constraints or limitations can actually stimulate creativity. For
  example, limiting the time or resources available can force us to be more creative and
  resourceful in generating ideas.
* **Divergent thinking**: This involves looking for new and unconventional perspectives on a problem or
  challenge. This can involve looking at the problem from different angles, asking unusual
  questions, or trying to see the situation from the perspective of someone very different from
  ourselves.
* **Collaboration**: Working with others can often lead to new and unexpected ideas. This can involve
  brainstorming sessions with colleagues, partnering with someone with a different skill set or
  background, or simply bouncing ideas off of friends and family.

Ultimately, the key to successful idea generation is to be open, curious, and willing to experiment.
It's important to recognize that not every idea will be a good one, and that's okay - the goal is
to generate a large quantity of ideas and then sift through them to find the most promising ones.
By using a variety of techniques and being persistent in the pursuit of new ideas, we can unlock
our creativity and develop truly innovative solutions.


## Idea incubation

After generating ideas, step away from them and allow them to incubate. This can involve taking a
break, engaging in a different activity, or simply letting the ideas simmer in the back of your
mind. This step is crucial for allowing the ideas to mature and develop.

Idea incubation is the process of allowing ideas to develop and mature over time, often without
actively focusing on them. It's a crucial step in the creative process, as it allows our minds to
work through ideas subconsciously, and can often lead to breakthroughs and new insights.

When we incubate ideas, we give our brains time to process and connect disparate pieces of
information, allowing us to see patterns and connections that may not have been immediately
obvious. This can happen when we take a break from actively working on a project, engage in a
different activity, or simply allow our minds to wander and daydream.

The key to successful idea incubation is to find a balance between active work and passive
reflection. We need to actively engage with our ideas and do the groundwork of research,
brainstorming, and experimentation, but we also need to give ourselves time and space to let those
ideas percolate and develop.

One of the challenges of idea incubation is that it can be difficult to know when to come back to a
project and start actively working on it again. It's important to trust our instincts and listen to
our intuition - when we feel a renewed sense of energy and excitement about a project, that's often
a sign that our ideas have had time to incubate and are ready to be developed further.

In order to make the most of idea incubation, it's important to create an environment that supports
creativity and reflection. This might involve taking breaks throughout the day, scheduling
regular "creative time" into your calendar, or finding a quiet and peaceful space where you can
focus without distraction.

Ultimately, idea incubation is a critical step in the creative process, allowing us to tap into our
unconscious minds and come up with truly innovative solutions. By finding a balance between active
work and passive reflection, and creating a supportive environment for our creativity to thrive, we
can unlock our full potential and bring our best ideas to life.


## Feedback

Once the ideas have had time to incubate, seek feedback from others. Share your ideas with trusted
friends, colleagues, and mentors, and listen carefully to their feedback, incorporating it into
your work as necessary.

Feedback is a critical component of personal and professional growth, and it involves giving and
receiving information about the performance or behavior of oneself or others. It can come in many
different forms, such as praise, criticism, suggestions, or evaluations, and it can be given in a
variety of contexts, including the workplace, the classroom, and personal relationships.

Effective feedback is essential for improving performance, learning, and achieving goals. It helps
individuals identify their strengths and weaknesses, and provides insights into areas for
improvement. By giving and receiving feedback, we can gain a better understanding of how others
perceive us and how we can make meaningful changes in our behavior or performance.

To give effective feedback, it is important to be specific, timely, and actionable. Feedback should
be specific and focused on the behavior or performance in question, rather than on the individual
themselves. It should be delivered in a timely manner, ideally soon after the behavior or
performance occurred, in order to be most impactful. Finally, feedback should be actionable,
providing clear and practical steps for improvement.

Receiving feedback can be challenging, as it often involves hearing about areas where we can
improve. However, it is important to approach feedback with an open and growth-oriented mindset.
This means actively seeking out feedback, being receptive to criticism, and using feedback as a
tool for learning and development.

When receiving feedback, it is important to actively listen and seek to understand the perspective
of the person giving the feedback. It is also helpful to ask clarifying questions and to
acknowledge and thank the person for their feedback. Finally, it is important to use the feedback
as a tool for improvement, by setting actionable goals and taking steps to implement changes in
behavior or performance.

Feedback is a critical tool for personal and professional growth, and it can be given
and received effectively by being specific, timely, and actionable. By approaching feedback with an
open and growth-oriented mindset, we can use it as a tool for learning and development, and achieve
our full potential.


## Iteration

Based on the feedback you receive, iterate and refine your ideas, making multiple passes over the
work until you are satisfied with the final product. This is an ongoing process, and that even
after you have finished a piece of writing, you keep looking for ways to improve it.

Iteration is a process of repeating and refining a task or project over time to improve its quality
or achieve better results. It is a critical aspect of problem-solving and innovation, and is often
used in fields such as software development, design, and engineering.

The process of iteration typically involves several steps. First, a prototype or initial version of
the project is created, based on a set of requirements or specifications. Next, the project is
tested or reviewed, and feedback is collected from users or stakeholders. Based on this feedback,
the project is then refined, and a new version is created.

This cycle of testing, feedback, and refinement is repeated multiple times until the desired outcome
is achieved. Each iteration builds upon the previous one, with improvements made to the project at
each step. Over time, this process of iteration can result in significant improvements in the
quality and effectiveness of the project.

One of the key benefits of iteration is that it allows for rapid experimentation and testing. By
creating a prototype or initial version of the project, teams can quickly identify potential issues
or areas for improvement, and make adjustments before investing too much time or resources. This
can lead to faster development cycles, reduced costs, and ultimately, better outcomes.

Another benefit of iteration is that it promotes a culture of continuous improvement. By
incorporating feedback and making iterative improvements, teams can constantly refine their work
and strive for excellence. This can lead to greater innovation, increased efficiency, and a
competitive advantage in the marketplace.

However, iteration can also be challenging, as it requires a willingness to accept feedback and make
changes to the project. It can also be time-consuming and resource-intensive, particularly if
multiple iterations are required. As such, it is important to carefully plan and manage the
iteration process to ensure that it is efficient and effective.

In conclusion, iteration is a powerful tool for improving the quality and effectiveness of a
project. By creating prototypes, testing, and refining based on feedback, teams can achieve better
outcomes and foster a culture of continuous improvement. While iteration can be challenging, the
benefits of this approach make it a critical part of problem-solving and innovation.


## Persistence

Persistence is critical in the writing process. Writing can be difficult and often frustrating, but
the most successful writers are those who are able to push through these challenges and stay
committed to their work over the long term.

Persistence is the ability to continue pursuing a goal or task despite facing obstacles, setbacks,
or challenges along the way. It is a key trait of successful individuals, as it enables them to
persevere through difficult times and achieve their objectives.

Persistent individuals are highly motivated and determined to achieve their goals, even when faced
with adversity. They possess a strong work ethic and are willing to put in the time and effort
necessary to succeed. They are also adaptable and resilient, able to adjust their strategies and
approach when faced with obstacles or setbacks.

One of the key benefits of persistence is that it allows individuals to overcome challenges and
achieve their objectives. When faced with obstacles or setbacks, persistent individuals do not give
up, but instead use these experiences as opportunities to learn and grow. They remain focused on
their goals, and continue to work towards them, even in the face of adversity.

Another benefit of persistence is that it builds character and resilience. By persevering through
difficult times, individuals develop a sense of self-discipline and inner strength. They become
more resilient, better able to cope with challenges, and more confident in their ability to achieve
their goals.

However, persistence can also be challenging, as it requires a high level of dedication and
commitment. It can be frustrating to face setbacks or obstacles along the way, and it takes a
significant amount of mental and emotional energy to stay focused and motivated. As such, it is
important for individuals to practice self-care and seek support when needed to maintain their
persistence over time.

Persistence is a critical trait for achieving success and overcoming challenges. By remaining
focused and motivated, persistent individuals are able to achieve their goals and develop inner
strength and resilience. While persistence can be challenging, the benefits of this trait make it a
key component of personal and professional growth.

