# Message Payload

See also [Micropub Product Deliverables](micropub-Payload)

<img alt="Message Payloads" src="/static/images/shrinking-world.com/tech/Message.png" width='400'/>


## Text and Video

The basis of all communication is to pass one idea within just a few words.  This occurs in every
type of communication.  In print, a headline plays the role of a message, while the video recordings
it is the sound-bite. Both of these are intended to present the big idea in just a few words.

Mobile devices have taken this to a whole new level.  The SMS text message size of 160 characters
has turned this into an art form.  Twitter has built an entire ecosystem that is composed of people
exchanging messages with one another.  Frequently these messages link to some larger context and
act an index to other information.

Communicating at this level is extremely efficient - allowing people to scan a large list of
messages in a few seconds to find topics of interest.  A well-crafted message should do two things
well.  It should encapsulate one single idea, producing interest.  And it should provide instant
access to a larger body of knowledge if the reader wishes to pursue the topic further. 

Messages can also be given as video recordings of live presentations of conversations.  The text
should be short, to qualify as a Message within the micropub ecosystem.  One minute of speaking is
roughly equivalent to 50-60 words of text.  Messages should be limited to 50 words or 1 minute of
speaking.


## On-ramp for More

The primary purpose of the Message is to encapsulate an idea and invite people to learn more.  This
acts as an on-ramp to engage others to explore further.

Make people aware that there is a larger topic being discussed without dumping all of the info on
them.  Don't push, but rather invite them to come and see. When the reader or viewer decides to
learn more, show them a little more without scaring them off.

Use social media like Twitter, Facebook, and Mastodon to post a headline with a link back to a
single web page that gives them the next step in an unfolding story.  Give the readers/viewers one
action to perform if they want to learn more.  Social Networking apps offer a quick way to broadcast
messages to a wider audience. Use this as a way to begin a conversation.

If you are posting video, consider using a 1-minute video to introduce people to a 5-minute video to
follow up.  Many people will commit to a 1-minute video because it is so short.  Once you have
piqued their interest and gained their trust you can go further.  But move slowly so that you do
not lose their interest.

The message should convey a single idea and entice the recipient to engage.  This could be to
respond to a question or to learn more about the idea.  Remember that a message is not an end in
itself, but rather an invitation to curiosity.