## Demo 1 - Profile App


### Overview

This demo code illustrates the concepts from "**Building Web Apps -
Chapter 1**".

The code repository for this demo code is at

    https://github.com/Mark-Seaman/PythonWebApps

Visit the demo code at **01/ProfileApp**.

To follow this demo you will need to have several development tools
installed on your local computer. These tools will be used throughout
this book to build, test, and deploy code. If you have not already done
so, pause and install these apps as described in Skills 1-3

-   Visual Studio Code
-   Github
-   Python
-   Django


**Demonstrated Skills**

The following Design Patterns are illustrated by this demo

-   Setup Visual Studio Code
-   Setup your code repo at Github
-   Setup Python Environment
-   Run a Django Application


### Step 1 - Get the Demo Code

Fork the repo for "Mark-Seaman/PythonWebApps"

    https://github.com/Mark-Seaman/PythonWebApps

to create your own copy of the repo with permission to make changes

    https://github.com/your-name/PythonWebApps

Clone the repo on your system using Visual Studio


### Step 2 - Profile Page - Static Web Server

This code demo shows the construction of a simple static website.

-   Single directory
-   Single HTML file "index.html"
-   CSS file "style.css"
-   Image file "me.jpg"

To view the web page, open the index file by double-clicking it to run
the default browser.

These files are used to build the static web page.

    ├── me.jpg
    ├── index.html
    └── style.css

Use a simple static web server whenever you need simple HTML, CSS and
JavaScript files. But many applications require you to implement some
sort of business logic on your server. If this is the case then you will
need to provide a Dynamic Application Server.


### Step 3 - Profile App - Dynamic Application Server

This code is a simple Django application that displays the same content
as the Profile Page. But this app code is general purpose and is easily
extended.

The code helps you test if all the development tools are set up
properly.

-   Python environment
-   Django code libraries
-   Visual Studio Code
-   Github Repo

These files are used to build the Django application.

    ├── config
    │   ├── __init__.py
    │   ├── settings.py
    │   ├── urls.py
    │   └── wsgi.py
    ├── manage.py
    ├── pages
    │   ├── __init__.py
    │   ├── templates
    │   │   └── index.html
    │   └── views.py
    └── static
    ├── me.jpg
    ├── index.html
    └── style.css

You can see that there are many files required to bring up a simple web
application. These files provide a powerful platform that will let you
build applications that will easily scale to thousands of users and
advanced functionality.


### Step 4 - Run the Development Server

Run the web server

    $ python manage.py runserver

Don't worry about the warning for "unapplied migrations"
Browse to the web page at **http://localhost:8000**

Use Ctrl-C to kill the server


