## Demo 7 - Blog Authors


This demo code illustrates the concepts from "**Building Web Apps - Chapter 7**".

The code repository for this demo code is at

    https://github.com/Mark-Seaman/PythonWebApps
    
Visit the demo code at **07/Blog**.

This code shows the structure of a Django application that has user accounts. 
Multiple data types are defined along with the views required to edit the data
records. This app has been left intentionally simple to make it easy to
understand all of the code.

This app has unique user accounts for authors. Every data object is tied to a
specific author. Each author is able to log in to create news articles
or modify existing ones.

New users can register directly on the website to get a user login. The Author
records in the database use the built-in data models and views for the Users.
Any author can read all articles but only the author of an article can modify
the contents.

A custom registration form and login form conform to the style of the
application by extending "theme.html".


**Demonstrated Skills**

The following Design Patterns are illustrated by this demo

* User Registration
* User Login
* Data Status


**Steps to recreate this demo**

* Create the project
* Create the app
* Create the data and views
* Create the tests
* Deploy and test


### Step 1 - Build Project

Create the project and configure settings to support user registration.

config/settings.py

    LOGIN_REDIRECT_URL = '/'

    LOGOUT_REDIRECT_URL = '/'

    ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['localhost', '127.0.0.1', '.ondigitalocean.app']

    STATICFILES_DIRS = [BASE_DIR / 'static']


### Step 2 - Build Data

Define an author data model that uses the built-in type for User.

models.py

    from django.contrib.auth.models import User
    from django.db import models

    class Author(models.Model):

        user = models.OneToOneField(User, on_delete=models.CASCADE, editable=False)
        bio = models.TextField()


### Step 3 - Build Registration View

templates/registration/signup.html

    <form method="post">
        {% csrf_token %}

        {{ form }}

        <button type="submit">Sign Up</button>
    </form>


views.py

    from django.contrib.auth.forms import UserCreationForm

    class UserAddView(CreateView):
        form_class = UserCreationForm
        success_url = reverse_lazy('login')
        template_name = 'registration/signup.html'



### Step 4 - Build Login View

templates/registration/login.html

    <form method="post">
        {% csrf_token %}

        {{ form }}

        <button type="submit">Log In</button>
    </form>


After login go the default URL '/'. This will either show the user settings
or display the list of articles available to read. The login status determines
the page to redirect to.

views.py

    from django.contrib.auth.models import User
    from django.contrib.auth.mixins import LoginRequiredMixin

    class UserHomeView(RedirectView):
        def get_redirect_url(self, *args, **kwargs):
            if self.request.user.is_anonymous:
                return '/article/'
            return f'/author/{get_me(self.request.user).pk}'

    def get_me(user):
        return Author.objects.get_or_create(user=user)[0]


### Step 5 - Build User Edit View

After registration, the user may need to change the User settings or the Author
settings. There are two different views that support this. Note the two
different data models that are edited.

views.py

    from django.contrib.auth.models import User
    from django.contrib.auth.mixins import LoginRequiredMixin

    class UserUpdateView(LoginRequiredMixin, UpdateView):
        template_name = "account_edit.html"
        model = User
        fields = ['first_name', 'last_name', 'username', 'email']
        success_url = reverse_lazy('home')

    class AuthorDetailView(DetailView):
        template_name = 'author_detail.html'
        model = Author



### Step 6 - Build URLs

These URLs support the registration, login, and editing of the user and author
settings. They also support the automatic association of each Author with 
the login credentials. The author records can be made available to other
users as a list or individual details.

urls.py

    urlpatterns = [

        # Accounts
        path('accounts/', include('django.contrib.auth.urls')),
        path('accounts/<int:pk>/',          UserUpdateView.as_view(),  name='user_edit'),

        # Author
        path('',                           RedirectView.as_view(url='author/home')),
        path('author/',                    AuthorListView.as_view(),    name='author_list'),
        path('author/home',                AuthorHomeView.as_view(),    name='author_home'),
        path('author/<int:pk>',            AuthorDetailView.as_view(),  name='author_detail'),
        path('author/add/',                AuthorAddView.as_view(),     name='author_add'),
        path('author/<int:pk>/',           AuthorUpdateView.as_view(),  name='author_edit'),
        path('author/<int:pk>/delete',     AuthorDeleteView.as_view(),  name='author_delete'),

        # Article
        path('article/',                  ArticleListView.as_view(),    name='article_list'),
        path('article/<int:pk>',          ArticleDetailView.as_view(),  name='article_detail'),
        path('article/add',               ArticleCreateView.as_view(),  name='article_add'),
        path('article/<int:pk>/',         ArticleUpdateView.as_view(),  name='article_edit'),
        path('article/<int:pk>/delete',   ArticleDeleteView.as_view(),  name='article_delete'),
    ]


### Step 7 - Deploy & Test

Test all the features of the app

* Register a new user
* Login
* Complete profile for the author
* Add an article as an author
* List articles
* View the article details
* Edit an article
* Delete an article
* Edit author profile
* Verify user status info
* Logout
* Attempt to edit the article


