## Demo 9 - Views Workshop

This demo code illustrates the concepts from "**Building Web Apps - Chapter 9**".

The code repository for this demo code is at

    https://github.com/Mark-Seaman/PythonWebApps
    
Visit the demo code at **09/ViewWorkshop**.

This demo will illustrate how to build complex views.
It showcases a number of different design patterns that will be quite useful
in building your applications.



### Step 1 - Build Page Theme View

Study this collection of templates that make up the Page Theme View Design 
Pattern.

views/templates

    theme.html
    _container.html
    _edit.html
    _footer.html
    _header.html
    _navbar.html
    page.html

Modify each file and see the results.  Experiment until you can control the overall appearance
of your pages.



### Step 2 - Build Simple Views

Simple views provide one level of abstraction. They wrap some HTML code in
a wrapper that adds some attributes to the page. These simple views could be
added directly using a small amount of HTML code. The benefit of using a
design pattern is that the resulting code is more readable and duplication 
is eliminated.

views/templates

    # Cards & Containers
    card.html
    _card.html
    _cards.html
    _container.html

    # Markdown Documents
    document.html
    _documents.html

    # Edit Form
    _edit.html
    
    # CSV Data
    table.html
    _table.html

These snippets of code can be incorporated into your design by either copying the template to your
project or by copying the content of the template.


### Step 3 - Build Complex Views

Complex views are built by putting together many simple view constructs. 
When complete these pages may contain over 1000 lines of HTML code. It is 
very important to create pages using these design patterns. Complex pages that
are built from raw HTML and JavaScript are all but unreadable.


views/templates

    # Accordion View
    accordion.html
    _accordion.html

    # Carousel View
    carousel.html
    _carousel.html

    # Tabs View
    tabs.html
    _tabs.html

    # Super View
    super.html

