## Demo 10 - Photo Albums

### Overview

This demo will illustrate how to build an application that handles images.  Users can upload images
to the server and then display them with an Image Carousel.

The code repository for this demo code is at

    https://github.com/Mark-Seaman/PythonWebApps
    
Visit the demo code at **10/Albums**.


**User Stories**

- Users are able to register for a new user account.
- Users are able to upload photos and have them displayed.  
- Photos are displayed in an image carousel that rotates through all of
the photos.


**Demonstrated Skills**

* Photo upload
* Media hosting on the server
* Image carousel



### Step 1 - Configure Setting

Create the project and configure the settings 

config/settings.py

    # App Settings

    ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['127.0.0.1', 'localhost', '.ondigitalocean.app']

    INSTALLED_APPS = [..., 'photos']

    ROOT_URLCONF = 'photos.urls'


    # Static Server

    STATIC_URL = 'static/'

    STATICFILES_DIRS = [BASE_DIR / 'static']


    # Media Server

    MEDIA_URL = 'media/'

    MEDIA_ROOT = BASE_DIR / "media"



### Step 2 - Build Data

The Author record matches the registered Users for the app.  We use the standard
mechanism that we learned in Chapter 7 to register the Authors.  All images
will be attached to the Author that created them.

To upload photos all we need to do is add a field to the Photo class that 
is inherited from models.ImageField.  The "upload_to" function sets up the
path where the images will be stored in the directory for media, which is 
set up to point to "/media/" on our app.


**models.py**

    class Author(models.Model):

        user = models.OneToOneField(User, on_delete=models.CASCADE, editable=False)
        bio = models.TextField()

        @staticmethod
        def get_me(user):
            return Author.objects.get_or_create(user=user)[0]


    def get_upload(instance, filename):
        return f'images/{filename}'


    class Photo (models.Model):

        author = models.ForeignKey(Author, on_delete=models.CASCADE, editable=False)
        title = models.CharField(max_length=100)
        image = models.ImageField(null=True, blank=True, upload_to=get_upload)

        def get_absolute_url(self):
            return reverse_lazy('photo_detail', args=[str(self.id)])


### Step 3 - Build Views

Most of the views are identical to the other standard views we have built 
many times.  The key difference for uploading photos is the multipart form 
data setting in the template code. This sets up the proper protocol for 
transferring the image to the server.


**photos/templates/photo/list.html**

    {% extends 'theme.html' %}

    {% block content %}

        <form action="" method="post" enctype="multipart/form-data">
            {% csrf_token %}
            {{ form }}
            <button type="submit">Save Image</button>
        </form>

    {% endblock content %}


When we upload a new image we must assign an Author record to it.  This is
done by attaching the Author record for the currently logged-in User.

**views.py**

    class PhotoCreateView(LoginRequiredMixin, CreateView):
        template_name = "photo/add.html"
        model = Photo
        fields = '__all__'

        def form_valid(self, form):
            form.instance.author = Author.get_me(self.request.user)
            return super().form_valid(form)

    class PhotoUpdateView(LoginRequiredMixin, UpdateView):
        template_name = "photo/edit.html"
        model = Photo
        fields = '__all__'


**urls.py**
        
    urlpatterns = [

        path('photo/',                      PhotoListView.as_view(),    name='photo_list'),
        path('photo/<int:pk>',              PhotoDetailView.as_view(),  name='photo_detail'),
        path('photo/add',                   PhotoCreateView.as_view(),  name='photo_add'),
        path('photo/<int:pk>/',             PhotoUpdateView.as_view(),  name='photo_edit'),
        path('photo/<int:pk>/delete',       PhotoDeleteView.as_view(),  name='photo_delete'),

    ] + static(settings.MEDIA_URL, document_root=settings.MEDIA_ROOT)



### Step 4 - Build Tests

Create a full set of tests to verify the Data and the Views.
See the demo code in the git repo for the details of these tests.
Always use a consistent naming convention to make it easy to copy existing
code to be modified for your details.

When testing the views you will need to create login logic so that you can
test the features before and after logging in.

**Data Tests**

    from django.contrib.auth import get_user_model
    from django.test import TestCase
    from django.urls import reverse

    from .models import Author, Photo


    def user_args():
        return dict(username='TESTER', email='test@test.us', password='secret')


    def test_user():
        return get_user_model().objects.create_user(**user_args())


    class PhotoDataTest(TestCase):

        def setUp(self):
            self.user = test_user()
            self.author = Author.objects.create(user=self.user, bio='single tester')
            self.photo1 = dict(author=self.author, title='title 1', image="photo1.png")
            self.photo2 = dict(author=self.author, title='title 2', image="photo2.png")

        def test_add_test(self):
            ...

        def test_edit(self):
            ...

        def test_delete(self):
            ...


**Views Tests**

    class PhotoViewsTest(TestCase):

        def login(self):
            username = self.user.username
            password = user_args()['password']
            response = self.client.login(username=username, password=password)
            self.assertEqual(response, True)

        def setUp(self):
            self.user = test_user()
            self.author = Author.objects.create(user=self.user, bio='single tester')
            self.photo1 = dict(author=self.author, title='title 1', image="photo1.png")
            self.photo2 = dict(author=self.author, title='title 2', image="photo2.png")

        def test_photo_list_view(self):
            ...

        def test_photo_detail_view(self):
            ...

        def test_photo_add_view(self):
            ...

        def test_photo_edit_view(self):
            ...

        def test_photo_delete_view(self):
            ...



### Step 5 - Deploy & Test

* Deploy the app using the **config/app.yaml** file
* Test by running the automated tests and browsing to the server and creating a photo album.

