## Demo 11 - Book Builder


### Book Builder App

This demo code illustrates the concepts from "**Building Web Apps - Chapter 11**".

The code repository for this demo code is at

    https://github.com/Mark-Seaman/PythonWebApps
    
Visit the demo code at **11/Book**.

This simple app lets authors construct a book. Each book is owned by a single
author. When the author logs into the system they see their books. They can create and modify books through the user interface.

The author can publish the book by making it available to everyone. Each book is
composed of chapters. A table of contents is automatically generated to let
the user navigate between chapters. The website displays each chapter as a 
separate page.


**User Stories**
- Authors can see and modify books
- Export and import book as JSON
- Export and import table of contents
- Export and import chapter content

**Demonstrated Skills**

* User registration
* Cascading Data Design Pattern (User, Author, Book, Chapter)
* Many-to-One relationships
* Five Data Views Design Pattern
* Templates organized by data type


### Step 1 - Data Models

* Book
    * author
    * title
* Chapter
    * number
    * title
    * file


### Step 2 - Views

* Book
    * list
    * detail
    * add
    * edit
    * delete
    * export
    * import
* Chapter
    * list
    * detail
    * add
    * edit
    * delete
    * export
    * import


### Step 3 - CSV Document

The table of contents for a book is exported into a CSV file.

The table of contents for a book is imported from a CSV file.

Each record is a chapter in the book.


### Step 4 - CSV Document

The content of a book chapter is read from the Markdown file.

The title of the chapter is read from the first line of the file.

The chapter content is saved as a Markdown file.


### Step 5 - JSON Document

The book object can be exported into a JSON file.

A book object can be created by reading the JSON file and creating the database
record.


### Step 6 - Book Export

To export a book from the live database we could 

* save the book data object as a JSON file
* save the table of contents as a CSV file of chapters
* save each chapter as Markdown
* zip the contents together

This would create a file that could be downloaded by the user.


### Step 7 - Book Import

To import a book from a Document we could

* unzip the directory from the Document
* import the JSON book object (but rekey the objects to avoid conflict)
* read the table of contents from the CSV file
* read each chapter from the Markdown files
