## Demo 12 - Static Website Generator

### Course Builder App

This demo code illustrates the concepts from "**Building Web Apps - Chapter 12**".

The code repository for this demo code is at

    https://github.com/Mark-Seaman/PythonWebApps
    
Visit the demo code at **12/StaticSite**.

Sometimes you don't need the power or complexity of a full app. It is best
to avoid all of the setup of a full Django infrastructure if you only need
a static website. This demo will use the full power of an application to 
efficiently create web pages. But those pages will be static, allowing
for very simple and cheap deployment.

This simple app lets authors construct a static website automatically from a
collection of files. The application does not display the website but builds
a website that can be deployed as a simple static site.

In this demo, we will deploy the static site on the Digital Ocean App Platform. This
code is an example of using dynamic data to build a static site.


**User Stories**

* Build a dynamic web app by importing files
* Create a static website
* Deploy as a static website


**Demonstrated Skills**

* Document import
* Django management commands
* Rendering templates
* Writing files
* View inheritance and style



### Step 1 - Running the Demo

Get the demo source code from the repo

Run the development server locally

    $ python manage.py migrate
    $ python manage.py runserver

Browse to "localhost:8000"


### Step 2 - Import Your Files

The app reads files that are located in the "Documents" folder in the app.
These files contain the content for the website we are creating.

    * JSON file with site description and settings
    * Markdown files for pages
    * CSV to show the order of the pages and create an index

You can replace these files and rebuild the app with your own data.
The "import_site" command script starts by destroying the data records and reading
the new content from Documents.

    $ python manage.py import_site

When you run this custom Django command it will look in the Documents directory and
create data objects for each file. This is how the dynamic pages are
populated based on the files.

This command is implemented with the following code. Django provides a way for you to 
create your own commands by putting them in a "management/commands" directory. These
are automatically discovered and executed.

course/management/commands/import_site.py

    from django.core.management.base import BaseCommand
    from course.website import import_course


    class Command(BaseCommand):

        def handle(self, *args, **options):
            import_course()

The actual code logic to import a site from files is implemented in the **website.py** file.

course/website.py

    def import_course():

        def get_lesson(i, path):
            lesson = Lesson.objects.get_or_create(pk=i+1)[0]
            lesson.title = get_title(path)
            lesson.save()
            return lesson

        def get_title(doc):
            if not doc.exists():
                return f'Document not found, {doc}'
            return doc.read_text().split('\n')[0][10:]

        print('import the course')
        for i, doc in enumerate(sorted(Path('Documents/').iterdir())):
            lesson = get_lesson(i, doc)
            print(lesson)


### Step 3 - Generate the Static Website

A command script lets you build the static website from the running application.
The database lists the pages and the app builds the HTML files. The output
of the static website is placed in the "website" folder.

    $ python manage.py export_site


course/management/commands/export_site.py

    from django.core.management.base import BaseCommand
    from course.website import import_course


    class Command(BaseCommand):

        def handle(self, *args, **options):
            export_course()


The actual code logic to import a site from files is implemented in the **website.py** file.

course/website.py

    def create_website():

        def render_page(page):
            template = 'page.html'
            data = dict(lesson=page.pk, lessons=Lesson.objects.all(), body=get_document(page),
                        css='style.css', static=True)
            return render_to_string(template, data)

        print('create the website')
        p = Path('Website')
        if not p.exists():
            p.mkdir()
        copyfile('static/style.css', p/'style.css')
        for page in Lesson.objects.all():
            print(page.title)
            output_path = str(page.document).replace('Documents', 'Website').replace('.md', '.html')
            print(output_path)
            Path(output_path).write_text(render_page(page))

There are two additional things that we need to worry about before the website is working 
properly.

* Links
* Images

The links in the table of content point to the URLs for the markdown files to load on the
dynamic website.  These must be converted to use the HTML files on the static site.
See the **course/models.py** to understand how I solved this problem.

The image data can be properly served by adding a **Website/img** directory containing the
images. Now we have a fully functional website that can display text and images with a
table of contents selector.

If this site were constructed by hand there would be a massive amount of duplicated code.
We used the power of Django visual inheritance and data models to make our job easy.

Browse to the "website/index.html" page to view the static website.


### Step 4 - Deploy the Static Website

Now that we have a website we will deploy it using App Platform. Our previous
app projects have always deployed several different components:

* Static Media
* Django Python code
* Database

This demo only requires a simple static website.  This makes the **app.yaml**
file extremely simple.  We no longer need to deploy a full Django app to show the pages. The App
Spec sets up a single **static_site** directly from the Github repo.


**config/app.yaml**

    name: webapps-demo
    region: nyc
    static_sites:
    - environment_slug: html
      github:
        branch: main
        deploy_on_push: true
        repo: Mark-Seaman/PythonWebApps
      name: webapps-demo-static
      routes:
      - path: /
      source_dir: 12/StaticSite/Website

