## Demo 13 - Code Builder


This demo code illustrates the concepts from "**Building Web Apps - Chapter 13**".

The code repository for this demo code is at

    https://github.com/Mark-Seaman/PythonWebApps
    
Visit the demo code at **13/CodeBuilder**.

This app is capable of creating code that can be run as a Django application.
A custom Django command is used to run a code generator. The result is a
running program that is created automatically. While this app does not have 
all of the specific business logic, it does contain much of the common code
that is needed.

**Code Generator**

* New Project - runs "django-admin"
* New App - runs "startproject"
* New Data Type - copy the prototype code for Templates, Views, Tests, URLs


**User Stories**

* A script can generate starting code for app structure and data types
* Debug the created app and improve the code templates


**Demonstrated Skills**

* Code Generator Design Pattern
* Five Views Design Pattern
* Prototypes for Templates and View and URLs
* Prototypes for Test of Views and Data


**Steps to recreate this demo**

* Create the project
    * django-admin startproject
    * startapp
* Create the project prototypes
    * settings.py
    * urls.py
* Create the data prototypes
    * Data Models
    * Views
    * Templates
    * URLs
    * Tests
* Debug process


### Step 1 - Using Code Builder App

To illustrate the use of the app we will rebuild Demo 12 from scratch.

Start by building the script to generate the project. This script runs as a 
custom management command from inside Django.  

coder/management/commands/buildcode.py

    from django.core.management.base import BaseCommand

    from coder.coder import build_code


    class Command(BaseCommand):

        def handle(self, *args, **options):
            build_code()

This code calls the code generator to create the application files.
The code generator contains all of the specific details about how to create the
project, apps, and data model logic.


To execute this generator the custom command is run from the terminal window.

    $ python manage.py buildcode

A function is run that creates the project, apps and data types for 
the desired application.


### Step 2 - Create the Project Script

coder/coder.py

    def generate_course_builder():
        project_path = Path('/Users/seaman/Github/PythonWebApps/12')
        project_name = 'CourseBuilder'
        project_app = 'course'
        project_path = create_new_project(project_path, project_name)
        generate_data_type(project_path, project_app, 'Lesson', "lesson")
        system(f'tree {project_path}')

Running this command creates an entire collection of files.

    .
    ├── config
    │   ├── __init__.py
    │   ├── app.yaml
    │   ├── asgi.py
    │   ├── settings.py
    │   ├── urls.py
    │   └── wsgi.py
    ├── manage.py
    ├── requirements.txt
    ├── runtime.txt
    ├── static
    │   └── index.html
    └── templates
        ├── _edit.html
        ├── _navbar.html
        ├── index.html
        └── theme.html


These files are edited versions of the prototypes held within the Code Builder
application. Common application trade-offs are made for reasonable choices for
setting up a general purpose application.

Application settings drive the customized code that is created.

    Project: CourseBuilder

    App: course

    Data Models:  Class - Lesson,  Object - lesson
                  Class - Course,  Object - course

The business rules can be added to this code to create a fully formed application
quickly.


### Step 3 - Prototype Files

The code generator is built by customizing a collection of prototype files.

The files are customized to use the correct names for 

* Project Path
* Object Class Name
* Object Instance Name

Each of the files in the prototypes directory is scanned and converted by using
simple text substitution of the key variables.

    prototype
    ├── project
    │   ├── config
    │   │   ├── app.yaml
    │   │   ├── settings.py
    │   │   └── urls.py
    │   ├── requirements.txt
    │   ├── runtime.txt
    │   ├── static
    │   │   └── index.html
    │   └── templates
    │       ├── _edit.html
    │       ├── _navbar.html
    │       ├── index.html
    │       └── theme.html
    ├── templates
    │   └── object_instance
    │       ├── _object_instance.html
    │       ├── _object_instances.html
    │       ├── add.html
    │       ├── delete.html
    │       ├── detail.html
    │       ├── edit.html
    │       └── list.html
    ├── models_object_instance.py
    ├── tests_object_instance.py
    ├── urls_object_instance.py
    └── views_object_instance.py

At the project level, the files that are needed by Digital Ocean are automatically
created.

* runtime.txt
* requirements.txt
* static/index.html
* app.yaml

Templates, models, views, tests, and URLs are also created with distinct names
that describe their function.

The actual files desired should be created by selecting the code within these
files.

* url.py
* views.py
* tests.py
* models.py

Edit this code to match the business needs of the app you are creating.


### Step 4 - Test and Fix

During the debug and enhancement of the Course Builder code, new things will
be discovered and bugs corrected. These changes should be built into the 
code generator so that each time you run it is better than before.


