## Demo 14 - Software Engineering Notebook


This demo code illustrates the concepts from "**Building Web Apps - Chapter 14**".

The code repository for this demo code is at

    https://github.com/Mark-Seaman/PythonWebApps
    
Visit the demo code at **14/SoftwarePlanner**.

This demo will illustrate how to build a simple application that is a live
notebook for user content for the purpose of communication. Users are able to register themselves for a new
user account. They are also able to create content from predefined templates. The template
contains a number of different pages with textual content. Prompts
are given to help authors know what information to provide.

This is an example of a general application that will be a core skill in your arsenal.
Any time you need to create an app that can be represented as a table, this pattern will let
you build an app quickly and effectively. Another way to think about it is that you have objects
that are defined by groups.

In this demo, we will build Tasks (grouped by Milestones) but we can imagine any type of grouping.
For example:

* Book with Chapters
* Notebook with Notes
* Rows with Columns
* Customer with Orders

This same model can be expanded to handle other layers of containers. Our app might manage a
list of Authors, with Books, with Chapters. Here you will find a pattern to help you solve these
types of problems quickly and effectively.


**Demonstrated Skills**

* Markdown text
* Data output
* Five Views Design Pattern


**Steps to recreate any app**

* Create the project
    * django-admin startproject
    * startapp
* Create the project prototypes
    * settings.py
    * urls.py
* Create the data prototypes
    * Data Models
    * Views
    * Templates
    * URLs
    * Tests
* Debug process


### Step 1 - Build Project Code

Use the code generator from Demo 13 to build code for a new application.

    def generate_software_planner():
        project_path = Path('/Users/seaman/Github/SoftwarePlanner')
        project_name = 'SoftwarePlanner'
        project_app = 'plan'
        project_path = create_new_project(project_path, project_name)
        generate_data_type(project_path, project_app, 'Task', "task")


Executing this code builds the following file tree as a starting point. We then build several 
additional files by hand and make adjustments until we get a working version of a simple app.

    .
    ├── config
    │   ├── __init__.py
    │   ├── app.yaml
    │   ├── asgi.py
    │   ├── settings.py
    │   ├── urls.py
    │   └── wsgi.py
    ├── devplan.json
    ├── manage.py
    ├── plan
    │   ├── __init__.py
    │   ├── admin.py
    │   ├── apps.py
    │   ├── management
    │   │   ├── __init__.py
    │   │   └── commands
    │   │       ├── __init__.py
    │   │       └── plan.py
    │   ├── models.py
    │   ├── templates
    │   │   ├── _edit.html
    │   │   ├── index.html
    │   │   ├── milestone
    │   │   │   ├── _milestone.html
    │   │   │   ├── _milestones.html
    │   │   │   ├── add.html
    │   │   │   ├── delete.html
    │   │   │   ├── detail.html
    │   │   │   ├── edit.html
    │   │   │   └── list.html
    │   │   ├── task
    │   │   │   ├── _task.html
    │   │   │   ├── _tasks.html
    │   │   │   ├── add.html
    │   │   │   ├── delete.html
    │   │   │   ├── detail.html
    │   │   │   ├── edit.html
    │   │   │   └── list.html
    │   │   └── theme.html
    │   ├── tests.py
    │   ├── tests_milestone.py
    │   ├── tests_task.py
    │   ├── urls.py
    │   ├── views_milestone.py
    │   ├── views_plan.py
    │   └── views_task.py
    ├── requirements.txt
    ├── runtime.txt
    └── static
        ├── index.html
        └── style.css



### Step 2 - Build Data

We define two basic models in our system: Milestone and Task

**Milestone** is a container that is used to group all of the Tasks that must be performed to complete
the milestone.  

**Task** is the basic unit of work that must be completed. Each task within a milestone is numbered,
has a title, and notes that clarify the mission and progress.


models.py

    class Milestone(models.Model):
        title = models.CharField(max_length=100)
        order = models.IntegerField(default=0)
        notes = models.TextField()

        def __str__(self):
            return f'Milestone {self.order} - {self.title}'

        def get_absolute_url(self):
            return reverse_lazy('milestone_detail', args=[str(self.id)])

        @property
        def tasks(self):
            return Task.objects.filter(milestone=self)


    class Task(models.Model):
        milestone = models.ForeignKey(Milestone, on_delete=models.CASCADE)
        title = models.CharField(max_length=100)
        order = models.IntegerField(default=0)
        notes = models.TextField()

        def __str__(self):
            return f'{self.milestone} - {self.title}'

        def get_absolute_url(self):
            return reverse_lazy('task_detail', args=[str(self.id)])

These data models are the basis of building a dynamic table of Tasks grouped by Milestones.
Each cell in the table goes to an edit view where the notes for the Task can be changed. It is
possible to edit the Milestone details as well.



### Step 3 - Build Views

The view code is almost entirely auto-generated.  It is merely the code for the five standard views
of any object.  Some of these views may not make sense for our app.

views.py

    class MilestoneView(RedirectView):
        url = reverse_lazy('milestone_list')


    class MilestoneListView(ListView):
        template_name = 'milestone/list.html'
        model = Milestone
        context_object_name = 'milestones'


    class MilestoneDetailView(DetailView):
        template_name = 'milestone/detail.html'
        model = Milestone
        context_object_name = 'milestone'

        def get_context_data(self, **kwargs):
            kwargs = super().get_context_data(**kwargs)
            milestone = kwargs.get('milestone')
            kwargs['tasks'] = milestone.tasks
            return kwargs


    class MilestoneCreateView(CreateView):
        template_name = "milestone/add.html"
        model = Milestone
        fields = '__all__'


    class MilestoneUpdateView(UpdateView):
        template_name = "milestone/edit.html"
        model = Milestone
        fields = '__all__'


    class MilestoneDeleteView(DeleteView):
        model = Milestone
        template_name = 'milestone/delete.html'
        success_url = reverse_lazy('milestone_list')


The templates for the views are automatically generated with generic content.  The URLs for the
views are also quite regular.

urls.py

    urlpatterns = [

        # Task
        path('task/',                       TaskListView.as_view(),    name='task_list'),
        path('task/<int:pk>',               TaskDetailView.as_view(),  name='task_detail'),
        path('task/<int:milestone>/add',    TaskCreateView.as_view(),  name='task_add'),
        path('task/<int:pk>/',              TaskUpdateView.as_view(),  name='task_edit'),
        path('task/<int:pk>/delete',        TaskDeleteView.as_view(),  name='task_delete'),

        # Milestone
        path('milestone/',                  MilestoneListView.as_view(),    name='milestone_list'),
        path('milestone/<int:pk>',          MilestoneDetailView.as_view(),  name='milestone_detail'),
        path('milestone/add',               MilestoneCreateView.as_view(),  name='milestone_add'),
        path('milestone/<int:pk>/',         MilestoneUpdateView.as_view(),  name='milestone_edit'),
        path('milestone/<int:pk>/delete',   MilestoneDeleteView.as_view(),  name='milestone_delete'),

    ]



### Step 4 - Build Tests

Standard tests are generated for the data models.  We ensure that objects can be read, created,
updated, and deleted.  Standard tests are also generated for the views: list, detail, add, edit,
and delete cover all the required CRUD operations.

The generated code is produced with comments so that you can turn on and debug the tests one
line at a time.  Run the command script to light up the test and add a test until it all is 
active.  When you get an error, stop and solve it before moving on.

    $ python manage.py test


When all the automated tests pass, move on to interactive testing. Try each view and walk through
all of the key operations.



### Step 5 - Deploy & Test

Deploy the demo code using a modified version of the **config/app.yaml** file. This will take 
your working code live at Digital Ocean.

Perform your interactive tests on the web pages.  With a little practice, you should be able to
create an app like this in an hour or two.


