# My Travels in Greece

I've had the unique opportunity to travel to Greece during all four seasons of life: childhood, adulthood, mid-life, and
old age.  Every time has marked a transition point in my life

Each trip to Greece has been unique and unforgettable, marked by the different stages of life and the evolution of my
experiences and perspectives. Greece has been a constant thread, weaving through the fabric of my life, each visit
adding new colors and patterns to the tapestry.

## Greece at 10 in 1969: A Child's Perspective

In 1969, Greece was a land of wonder for a ten-year-old. The culture, language, and atmosphere were entirely different
from anything I had known. We lived in the upper story a home in Athens, attended an American school. I learned to speak
Greek well enough to get around the city by myself and act as tour guide to visitors.

This trip was marked by the oppressive atmosphere of a police state. Greece was under military rule, and even as a
child, I could sense the tension in the air. Despite this, the beauty of the country shone through, especially during
Easter on Crete. The island was alive with traditions, colors, and celebrations that left a lasting impression. The
smell of lamb roasting on a spit, the sound of church bells, and the warmth of the people made this Easter one of the
most memorable I've ever experienced.

## Greece at 40 in 1999: An Adult Perspective

Returning to Greece in 1999, thirty years later, felt like a pilgrimage. This time, the trip was centered around the
"Journeys of Paul" tour led by my dad. We retraced the steps of the apostle Paul through this ancient land. It was a
spiritual journey for me visiting the places I had read about for years.  Most of the places we visited I remember from
when I was a child.

The Greece I returned to was different in many ways. The world had changed, and so had I. Traveling had become a
significant part of my life, shaping my worldview and making this return even more poignant. It was fascinating to see
how Greece had evolved, yet retained its timeless beauty. Walking through places that held childhood memories, I
realized how travel transforms us, adding layers of experiences and perspectives.

## Greece at 50 in 2009: Ocean Cruises

By 2009, Greece had become a familiar yet always exciting destination. This time, the trip was about luxury and leisure,
with ocean cruises taking us through the stunning Greek Islands. The azure waters, whitewashed buildings, and the slow,
relaxed pace of island life were perfect for savoring the beauty of Greece at a different speed.

Nauplio and Athens were highlights, with their blend of history, culture, and modern vibrancy. We discovered our
favorite restaurant in Athens, a place that became our go-to spot for enjoying traditional Greek cuisine. The memories
of sitting in that restaurant, with its view of the Acropolis, sharing delicious meals and laughter, are treasures that
I carry with me.

We enjoyed this trip so much that we repeated it again the following year to take our daughter who was soon to move to
Japan.  These two trips last ocean cruises that we were to take for many years.

## Greece at 65 in 2024: A Journey of Reflection

A new trip to Greece is scheduled in 2024 this will be similar to one we took 25 years ago now.  It will undoubtedly be
a time of reflection and connection. Taking the "Footsteps of Paul" tour once again, this journey will be enriched by the
presence of friends I've known for fifty years. Sharing these experiences with people who have been part of my life for
so long will add a profound depth to the trip.

This journey is also about life after Stacie (my late wife of 45 years) and embracing my identity as a writer. Greece,
with its rich history of storytelling, has become a place of inspiration. Wandering through ancient ruins, writing in
cafes overlooking the Aegean, and contemplating the chapters of my life, I feel a deep connection to the land and its
stories.

