# Repositioning


## Day 15: Need to Retire

Throughout 2023 Stacie and I work an insane number of hours.  We found ourselves completely overcommitted and felt
unable to renegotiate.  As a consequence we canceled three family vacations that we had planned.

By October we agreed that we would no longer live like that.  We recognized that our lives had devolved into an endless
grind and the need to find enjoyment in activities that were not done for others.

We decided that our careers needed to stop being so consuming.  We were ready to retire.  Next year we would go on
medicare and it was time to get off the hamster wheel. Indeed, I had already retired at least five times but it never
stuck.


## Day 16: Retiring For Real

We have not made any real money for 10 years now so in that sense we have been economically retired for a long time.
This year I found myself trying to balance three full-time careers, and working 60 hours/week all year.  I was killing
myself and dragging Stacie along with me.

We decided that when classes were done that I would no longer teach at the university where I had been for seven years.
My college professor days were over.  Our involvement in writing application software would be reduced  for Prometa to
one day per week for each of us (from four days).

I had built an online school and would continue to produce classes but no longer strive to sell them.  Not only would
would our need for income end, but the inevitable stress of working for others needed to stop.  We would continue to do
creative work but only on our own terms.


## Day 17: Ocean Cruise

To mark this change in attitude we booked an ocean cruise.  It would be a month long, which was longer than any vacation
we had ever taken in our lives.  Never had we allowed ourselves to be off the clock for so long.  It was an extravagant
way to mark our new life together.

We were to travel by ship from Ft. Lauderdale and visit numerous countries including eight new countries we had never
been too.  This was a trip of a lifetime.  Unfortunately, her lifetime was too short. Stacie fell ill a week after
making the reservations and died a few weeks later.

Every time I thought of the trip I broke out in tears.  Of course, we had many fantastic trips together all over the
world.  But this trip was the beginning of our new life together.


## Day 18: Opportunity to Write

In the days at sea I was intending to finish my autobiography that I have been working on for several years.  Stacie has
helped others write and publish their life story, and I was going to help Stacie write her story.  But time ran out for
both of us.

The trip became a constant reminder of all that had been lost.  We longed for a time after the rat race when we could
celebrate our life together.  The thought of taking a voyage by myself was utterly unthinkable.

I left the reservations in place, but had no intention of going.  There were many other issues that required my
attention after Stacie's death.



## Day 19: Loss Redeemed

Several weeks after Stacie died, my daughter Rachel approached me.  She asked me how I would feel about going on the
trip with her.  This changed everything for me.   No longer would this be a trip of despair and loneliness, but one of
new beginning. 

We would both be able to confront our loss together and lean on each other as we sought to build a new life without
Stacie. This trip could mark a new start and help us see the world through fresh eyes.

Now,  my son Josiah will also be joining us on the cruise.  Both of them have kids and jobs that prevent them from being
gone for a whole month. But the trip itinerary makes it easy for them to tour Scandinavia with me.  



## Day 20: Join the Adventure

The first  two weeks will be the solo voyage from Florida to Amsterdam.  Josiah and Rachel will join me in Amsterdam,
and we will go together to Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Estonia, and Germany.  Each day is a new port and the hotel
moves at night.

Now that I am going, I am hoping to invite some friends with me.  Check out this article I about [Exploring the World]()
wrote shortly after we booked the trip.  It shows the itinerary and cost for the trip in case you might be interested in
joining me.


## Day 21: Surrounded by Love

I am so grateful to have my kids with me on this trip.  I am also grateful for the many friends who have reached out to
me in my time of need.  I am surrounded by love and support.  I am not alone. So many people have poured out their kindness 
and generosity to me.  I am truly blessed.  I am also humbled by to be the recipient of so much love.

