# 1 - The Leverage Principle


> "Give me a lever long enough and a fulcrum on which to place it, and I shall 
> move the world."
>
> ~ Archimedes

---

## Software is Central to Modern Life

In 2011, Marc Andreessen famously stated that "Software is Eating the World".
Every industry has experienced a remarkable transformation due to the growing
dominance of software. Entire industries like bookstores, music stores, movie
studios, newspapers, photography, and financial services, have been replaced by
software-based services. Software is no longer a secondary player - it's the
main show and will dictate whether your business succeeds or fails. Business now
runs 24/7 and software is at the very heart of this amazing revolution.

Great software systems create business success - they can automate repetitive
tasks and free up resources to continue innovating in other areas. Humans are
great at solving problems and computers are great at running those solutions.
With each problem that is solved, more opportunity is created to deliver greater
value. The business now has a solution that can keep delivering value for an
ever decreasing cost. Resources and attention can now pivot to solving the next
round of business problems. Innovation spawns more innovation and forms a
productive feedback loop.

The reverse is also true - inadequate software can easily destroy an otherwise
healthy business. Because software is so central to every aspect of business
today, a company can be crippled by software systems that don't meet the
business needs.

Think about the national healthcare initiative, healthcare.gov, and its high
profile flop. Thousands of hours of planning and development costing millions of
dollars culminated in a failed deployment of a web application. The failure
created extra scrutiny, loss of credibility, and several key leaders lost their
jobs.

This drama plays out every day in every industry. Companies, governments, and
other organizations that don't understand how to develop or purchase software
systems that match critical business needs are doomed to struggle. The answer to
this threat is to apply the leverage principle to every facet of software
development and operations.


### Importance of Leverage


One definition of leverage is using something to maximum advantage. The goal for
every software development project should be to utilize every asset - everything
you've previously built, everything your team learned about the business needs,
every skill and bit of expertise in a technology platform. Utilize these
previous investments rather than creating them new every single time. No one
can afford to rebuild infrastructure that has already been created.


## The Leverage Principle - _Best practices produce higher quality software which encourages reuse._


Software development is expensive and it is far more expensive than it needs to
be. To build a software system requires solving thousands of specific
engineering problems. Each of these problems require some minimum amount of
effort. This effort is the essential problem cost.

But the cost of the actual solution can far exceed the essential cost.
Inefficiencies in the development process introduce work that doesn't actually
contribute toward the project goals. This cost must be viewed as waste. As much
as 50% of the ultimate cost of any software development project could be
characterized as waste. Eliminating this waste can allow you to deliver far more
business value with the same resources.


### Cost and Leverage

There is a direct relationship between the incremental development cost (in
money and time) and the amount of leverage that is achieved. The following graph
shows how the cost of the next release can be contained by reusing the
understanding from the existing system. High leverage levels require a lot of
discipline that must be acquired over time. But even modest amounts of leverage
can have a dramatic impact on the overall development cost.

You might think that it is hard to achieve high levels of leverage on each new
product cycle, but the opposite is actually true. The leverage is determined by
the quality of the software development process which is driven by the extent of
best practice usage. There is a compounding effect that applies here - better
processes enable a greater rate of improvement. Each generation will see a
reduction in the cost based on the developed skill and discipline of the team.
There is a double benefit here. Improving software processes produces better
software in the short term, but it also reduces the cost in future development.

Teams that have already achieved a high amount of leverage will continue to
improve their processes at a rapid rate. Organizations that are struggling with
the fundamentals of software engineering will find it difficult to realize the
leverage goals simply because they don't know how to develop software. You can
expect your rate of improvement to be relatively consistent over multiple
product generations. This gives you an idea of what to expect for cost
improvement over time. The budget contraction for money and time is the truest
measure of leverage.

**Rate of Cost Improvement**

![Rate of process improvement](img/Leverage_Improvement.png)


### What Blocks Leverage?

Everyone desires and expects leverage during software development. But when we
begin to look at reality, our projects often disappoint us. Why don't we get
more leverage? The answer is technical debt. A new project presents us with an
abundance of problems that must be solved. Each day on the project we are
working against this backlog. Each problem that we work on may reveal other
problems to solve. We can think about every one of these unsolved problems as a
debt that is owed by the project. Eventually we work through the debt and the
product is released to market.

In practice, we choose to solve some problems while deferring others. Every
time we defer an issue for later, we write an IOU that must be paid some day.
The best way to measure both assets and debt is hours of engineering required.
How many hours will it take for you to resolve the issues on the project? How
many hours would it take to build the functionality that you have right now?
This gives you a solid metric that accounts for what is good and bad within
your software.


### Technical Debt Decreases Quality

Excessive technical debt is the primary challenge to quality. Unseen problems
multiply and threaten to compromise the integrity of the system. Quality is
often assumed (of course we write good code!), so very few people will
appreciate it unless it is missing. Quality is not automatic, it requires hard
work. Groups that produce high quality products will continue to do so because
they have discovered the required practices that lead them to success.

The only way to have repeatable results is to monitor and control your technical
debt throughout the course of your project. Quality problems propagate - a small
problem can grow into a large problem if left unresolved. Bugs reproduce and
infest other parts of the system. Unclear designs create more confused code.
Misunderstood product requirements result in solutions that work "correctly" but
aren't usable.

Eliminate debt as you go in order to pay the lowest cost. A bug that costs you
an hour now may cost you a day to fix one week from now. That same defect could
easily cost you a week of time later in the project. The strategy should be pay
as you go - clean up every area you visit before moving on.

Make debt a conscious decision - don't accept it automatically. There are real
situations that require postponing work until later. Choose that path as a last
resort and be aware that you will have to pay interest on that work in addition
to the initial cost.


### Many Types of Technical Debt

There are many types of technical debt. There are different sources of debt that
show up in many ways. The actions for solving each type of debt are unique to
the problems being addressed. The structure of this book is based on addressing
the three main categories of debt:

* Development Concerns - Part 2
* Operational Concerns - Part 3
* People/Culture Concerns - Part 4

We will look at each of these areas from an architect's viewpoint and ask, "how
can we apply best practices to control the level of debt that is accumulated
over time"? Paying off technical debt produces the maximum opportunity for
leverage. Technical debt is eliminated by having better development practices
that standardize the approach to common problems. This decreases the number of
unique problems that must be solved throughout the development cycle. The amount
of leverage determines the cost of software. Best practices are the most direct
way to control software cost.


## Best Practices

Technical debt is a trap that will prevent leverage. Establishing standard
practices is the most effective path to avoid debt. When best practices are
implemented throughout the development process, creative energies are focused
solely on solving new problems.

Most architects are familiar with the excellent work done in the book, "Design
Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software". It introduced us to
the ideas behind creating a catalog of designs for common problems. We can
extend this concept to every other aspect of software development. Design
patterns represent leverage in the design space but we also need leverage when
it comes to Requirements, Coding, Testing, Skill Management, Project Planning,
Operations Planning, and Monitoring Techniques.

Every aspect of development could benefit from producing canned solutions to
common situations. In other words, we need Requirements Patterns, Operational
Patterns, Skill Management Patterns and others. The goal should be to have a
complete set of process patterns to share knowledge effectively between
developers.

Creating a catalog of standard practices eliminates the need for each engineer
to learn the best way to do any given task on their own. The catalog itself
becomes a form of leverage allowing you to fully utilize each new trick that is
learned. Imagine bringing new team members up to speed by presenting them with a
catalog of the best practices they will need to do their job and jumpstart their
productivity on the project.


### Automatic Response to Common Problems

If a conscious decision is required to accomplish every task, then the level of
productivity will be fairly low. However, work accelerates dramatically when the
steps to solve a problem are automatic. Remember learning how to drive? Every
single action required a thoughtful analysis. If we make most development tasks
automatic and unconscious then problems will be solved with very little effort.

Best practices teach us to identify the situation and then select the
appropriate response. The solution is fixed and automatic for any given
solution. Of course, being good at selecting and applying the patterns still
takes practice. With a standard pattern, the engineer no longer needs to invent
the solution, they simple apply it. This can save an enormous amount of time
over the course of a large project.

Fight the pull of "Not Invented Here" (NIH). Engineers love to invent so there is
a tendency to invent everything that is necessary on a project. "Use a standard
toolkit"? "Not invented here"! The core flaw in this thinking is that
engineering resources are being wasted on finding new solutions when existing
ones work just as well. Engineering, at its core, is simply problem solving.
Developing a new product requires that thousands of individual problems be
solved. Successful leverage is the ability to identify these problems and
implement a solution without solving every technical problem from scratch.


### Role of Architect

According to Wikipedia, a Software Architect is "a software expert who makes
high-level design choices and dictates technical standards, including software
coding standards, tools, and platforms". CNN Money adds, "Great software
architects are designers and diplomats. They create innovative and valuable
programs, but they also translate highly technical plans into a vision the
C-suite can understand. They are a crucial link between a company's tech unit
and management".

A key role of the architect is to be the primary protector of the software
development investment. Leverage is central to achieving the highest level of
value for a reasonable cost. Therefore, the software architect needs to ensure
that the architectural design is suitable for the current release and can also
be used as the basis for all future releases. This is important for small scale
software projects but becomes absolutely critical as the size and scope of the
projects grow.

Architects have a primary responsibility to lead the organization's development
practices. Software development techniques should be constantly improving and
the architect steers these efforts. True improvements have to be based on the
current reality and measurement is a good starting point. A baseline will help
you understand your current process and where improvements are needed.


### Measure Your Current Leverage

Think about your last four development projects. Estimate the budget in hours
for each project. Multiply the extended size of the team by the duration of the
project and convert into hours. This gives you a good snapshot of the cost of
those projects. Now let's examine the leverage.

Between each successive budget, what was the percentage reduction? For example,
20% reduction would correspond to budgets of 1000, 800, 640, 512. You can see
that even a modest leverage rate still produces a 50% reduction over four 
generations.

Now for the hard part. How similar were the problems that were solved? Very
similar problems can result in an expected leverage opportunity of 90%. This
is because 90% of the problems that must be solved already have a standard
solution that can simply be applied to the new product. Leverage is the 
result of identifying these problems and solving them in an efficient way.


### Setting a Target for Leverage

Each software product is tied to a domain. By exploiting the repetition of
problems within a given domain and identifying the common problems and reusable
components, each new generation of software will require fewer new components to
be created.

On these recent projects, how much leverage was missed? How many problems did
you solve for a second time without any real benefit over the previous solution?
Switching technologies or programming languages is the type of large change that
destroys leverage. If you could time travel, would you make different decisions?

When solving each problem, think about the problem itself rather than the
solution. How much of the problem is actually different between the generations?
Does this correspond with the level of leverage that you were able to achieve?
If not, there is a gap that is actually an opportunity. You can speed up
development significantly by exploiting more leverage opportunities. This is
where the role of architect is critical to your company's future success.


### Reliable Knowledge Transfer 

Software is about understanding how to solve certain kinds of problems. There
are many different kinds of knowledge that must be managed to bring software to
life. Between each generation of software development there is the potential to
lose that knowledge. The team then has to reacquire lost knowledge in order to
complete the next product. It is expensive to learn information the first time
and it is just as expensive to relearn it a second and third time.

Leverage can be viewed as the high-fidelity transfer of understanding from one
product generation to the next. If we can transfer 90% of the understanding from
one product to another then only 10% of the problems must be solved. We would
expect this level of leverage to result in a ten times reduction in budget.

Leverage is about knowledge transfer. When knowledge is lost, leverage is lost
too. Changing technologies, product domains, organizational structure, and
knowledgeable individuals can destroy your leverage potential. Sacrificing
leverage can easily lead to a bloated budget and a failed product.


## Sustainable Development

If leverage is using something to maximum advantage, our goal is to create a
repeatable software development process. An accidental success on one project is
nice but we want predictable success. This requires a deeper understanding of
software process. Each generation of development should not only produce solid
products but also advance our development capability.

Winning organizations strike a balance between meeting the immediate needs and
solving long-term problems that will meet the future needs of the business. This
is accomplished by building effective software development capability. Each
product that is produced should make it easier to produce similar products for
much lower cost. Leverage of the software development process is the the surest
path to sustainable development. Core software capabilities support the business
goals, leading to ongoing success.


### Productive Improvement Cycle

Improvements have a compounding effect. Each problem that is solved reveals new
problems that have been hidden, but the new problems are both smaller and easier
to solve with the new optimized system. Each iteration of improvement not only
solves a real problem, but makes it easier to solve future problems as well.

This creates a productive feedback loop. The rate of the improvements increases
with a compounded benefit. The corollary is also true - a system in decay is
caught within a destructive feedback loop. The worse things get, the more
rapidly they will go bad.

We can harness this dynamic to create improvements that are easy to justify
based on short-term results. The key requirement is to produce results quickly.
Massive efforts at process improvement frequently fail because the decision
makers don't have a value for process - however they do value better product
results. The clever architect will focus attention on the product results and
use that to justify the process improvements.


### Use Metrics to Define Organizational Norms

Many organizations may be content with their current results but they have no
objective way of measuring the productivity or quality. Establishing a few
simple measurements can have a profound impact on how your team behaves. Begin
to count a few things that are essential to your success and use this
information to gain more support for your improvements.

If you show measurable progress from your improvements you can build trust with
stakeholders and make more changes. This is also helpful for identifying
neglected problem areas. For example, assume you can show that a particular
module is ten times more complex and producing more bugs than any other module.
You then have a clear mandate that this module needs to be replaced.

Build tools to examine your systems. Pay attention to the pain - it is
indicating a problem that needs attention. Every disagreement or
misunderstanding that happens during the course of a project is pointing you to
an unsolved problem. Solve the immediate problem and create a standard solution
at the same time. This solves a problem now and solves it for the future too.
Over time, an organization can build a very valuable inventory of common
solutions.


### Seek Leverage as a Primary Goal

As improvements are made daily to the features, tests, and structure, the
software will continue to get better and better. Fixing an existing system will
prevent having to replace it. Constantly monitor the big picture to manage both
quality and functionality throughout development.

A little cleaner is a little better. You don't need to leap the building in a
single bound but you do need to make a constant series of improvements to the 
software over time.

The economics of leverage are simple:

* High quality means low cost
* Low quality means short life
* Software reflects the team that built it
* Building best practices of the team extends software life


### A Culture of Success

Great software is produced by great teams. An effective team can be relied upon
to create amazing software every time. A strong development team can achieve
three to four times the results of a mediocre team. Building a winning team
isn't easy because there are always many challenges that threaten to undermine
the effectiveness of the team. Some of these challenges have become so
entrenched in the organization that they aren't even recognized anymore.

The chapters in Part 4 are dedicated to exploring the people-related issues that
affect leverage. Without addressing these topics you won't be able to realize
the full benefits of leverage. Your success at development and operations is
directly dependent on your ability to build a healthy culture. How your people
think and behave will either support or undermine your business goals and
technical goals. Sustainable development requires building a great place to work
at the same time great products are being built.


## Tale of Two Companies

To illustrate the Leverage Principle, let us consider two different fictional
companies and how they might apply leverage. We will start with a small scale
application and then consider how these same dynamics would apply to much larger
software development efforts. 

George and Linda decide to create a company, Seabreeze Travel, that will manage
bookings on cruises. They decide to build a simple enterprise application which
will be hosted in the cloud. They both have a lot of web development experience
and are enthused about doing it right this time around. They want to build a
platform that can be used long-term to grow their business. Based on their
previous experience, they think that an application will require around 1000
hours of work to build.

Mary and James also decide to start a cruise booking company, called Foulwind
Adventures. They attended a seminar on Agile software methods recently and they
are very enthusiastic about that approach to development. They believe that
being agile means not writing any documentation or doing any design up front.
They select a sprint cycle of one week and load it up with lots of features.
Because they have chosen to implement so much functionality they probably won't
have time to write tests as part of each sprint but they aren't concerned about
that because they plan to hire several testers just prior to the product
release.

### Startup Decisions

At Seabreeze, Linda begins the work of project planning. She divides the 1000
hour budget into ten 100-hour sprints. She and George will work together on a
one-week cycle. They expect to be done in around three months. They compose the
milestones so that one significant feature is budgeted for each iteration. They
will build out each feature fully before starting on the next.

James is a wizard at coding so he jumps right in to the first chunk of code. At
Foulwind, they hope to be done in a few weeks. They already have made
commitments to others that the code will be released within two months. They are
feeling very excited about their impending success. Over the next four weeks
they pound away on features and are able to produce about twice the
functionality that Seabreeze is able to accomplish.

After about a month, Seabreeze has about one-third of the functionality created.
Each feature is well-tested with design patterns and strong interfaces. In fact,
Linda has created an automation framework and language to remotely run 
reservation scenarios from test scripts. They are excited about how this design
will adjust to multiple front-ends someday. They currently have no outstanding
defects.

Back at Foulwind, Mary has implemented a ton of new features. Of course, she
hasn't had time to fix all of the quirks but they have saved so much time that
they are confident that it will be easy to fix whatever needs to be fixed later.
Mary and James have started working independently to avoid the aggravation of
code conflicts - these multiple code streams can be reconciled later. It is
starting to bug both of them that they don't agree on the number of spaces and
variable naming conventions so they have fallen into the habit of reformatting
the code to assert their favorite style.

At three months both companies release code. Foulwind was aiming for a two-
month cycle but just couldn't pull it off. There were lots of strange behaviors
that required a lot of debugging to resolve. They hope things are better now,
but you never really know. Both companies end up with fairly good releases and
customers begin to flock to the systems.


### Second Release

After a month of operations both companies are missing key business needs. They
were both missing two critical features and are having problems with scaling to
the unexpected user demand. Linda looks over the new functionality that is
needed and determines that they already have 80% of what is needed for the
second release. Seabreeze immediately starts work on the new release by working
on two weekly sprints. Two weeks and 200 hours later they have a new release for
customers.

At Foulwind there are lots of defects, which is OK because new software is
always buggy. Customers are complaining about performance but the architecture
doesn't really support scaling. In fact, a new set of tools and database
structure may be needed to address the performance needs. All of these factors
together make it difficult to reuse the existing application code. But both
James and Mary believe that reuse is important so they push forward.

By the time they get to the second release they need to spend an additional
budget of 300 hours to maintain the existing system. The new functionality
required about 700 hours to build since there was only an opportunity to
leverage about 30% of the previous design work. The concept of the sprint was
abandoned because it is easier to just work on the most urgent issues which
seem to vary every day. Foulwind's second release required 1000 hours of effort
and three months.

The third release follows the same trend. Seabreeze is able to spend another 200
hours over two weeks to update their software. They are already thinking in
terms of continuous delivery. Why not just release every two weeks?

Foulwind is starting to believe that they may have the wrong tools. They are
still having performance problems and decide to switch web frameworks. They
decide to switch from ASP and C#, to Ruby on Rails. They both like new
technology so they believe this will be a good change of pace. The third release
is a complete reset and requires 1000 hours over three months.

As they compare the results of the second and third releases, they realize the
cost is the same. Both releases cost 1000 hours so they conclude there is no
benefit from leverage. "Reuse is a myth! Let's rewrite from scratch each time".
While this approach does have some merits, it is based on a fallacy.


### Comparison of Results

The following table shows the comparison for the results produced by the two
companies. The two companies start with the same level of performance. But over
time the productivity diverges dramatically. Within three product cycles there
is a cost difference of five times for each incremental release.

**Economics of Leverage**

|Release|Seabreeze Cost|Foulwind Cost|
|----|-------|--------|
|#1|1000 in 3 months | 1000 in 3 months|
|#2|200 in 0.5 months | 1000 in 3 months|
|#3|200 in 0.5 months | 1000 in 3 months|
|Total|1400 in 4 months | 3000 in 9 months|
|Leverage|80% leverage | 0% leverage|


This illustrates the Leverage Principle. Trying to leverage a system with high
technical debt is impossible. If the software is that bad it's much simpler to
replace the system entirely.


## Best Practice #1 - _Make leverage your primary goal._


***Problem***<br>
The key to controlling cost is fully utilizing knowledge that you already
possess. The understanding of the customer needs, product domain, technology,
tools, architecture, common problems, test strategies, and release process are
vital to the next software project. Learning and mastering all of these areas
requires a large amount of effort. A product that fully leverages that knowledge
requires far less time and money and results in a very high quality product.

Yet, most projects don't leverage any significant amount in each project cycle.
Knowledge is lost or discarded and must be reacquired at a high cost to the
project. The fundamental problem is that leverage is an afterthought and not
really built into the primary project goals.

Signs of poor leverage include: 

* Development work is often repeated
* Knowledge of how to build the system is frequently lost
* Legacy code becomes very brittle over time
* Unable to reuse software because of rigidity


***Solution***<br>
The solution to this waste is to build leverage into your core project plan.
Define all other project goals to optimize the amount of knowledge that can be
applied. Avoid the wasted effort that is required to relearn things that you
already know.

Make a list of the knowledge assets that you already possess and the new ones
that are required to complete the project. Build your project planning to
account for learning the missing essential knowledge. Learning is a significant
investment so work to fill the learning gap early in the project cycle and then
create experiments to validate your learning. Verify key assumptions that could
threaten leverage.

***Next Steps***

* Identify the critical types of technical debt
* Build an inventory of best practices
* Plan necessary process improvements
* Build multi-generation product plans with optimal leverage

