# 4 - Technology Leverage

> "If you do not change direction, you may end up where you are heading."
>
> ~ _Gautama Buddha_

---

## Technology Provides Leverage

Software development is about solving problems. Sometimes this requires building 
an entire solution from scratch, but more often your solution will be built on
top of existing technology that solves many of the problems for you.  

Technology selection is really a form of leverage - you are using existing
software to produce a solution without having to build your own software for the
same purpose. A single tool may reflect the knowledge of thousands of hours of
careful thought and development. When you build your own tool without
considering an existing solution you may be duplicating problems that others
have solved well.

This chapter will focus solely on how to optimize the selection process so that
every project gets a boost from the use of a great tool set.

### How Technology Selection Affects Leverage

Every solution that we build is based on some supporting technologies. This
makes decisions about technology selection critical to the success of every
project. Many organizations fail to give the technology selection the
attention it deserves and some decisions are made arbitrarily.

Choosing good technology can give a project an extra boost but a stable set of
technologies is also important for ongoing productivity. Switching technologies
too often can have a detrimental effect on the project because of the learning
curve involved. The reverse is true as well - I have seen the negative effects
of continued use of old technology when new tools could have provided a
significant boost in productivity. Leverage requires careful management and
timing of technology changes.

### Standardize on Great Tools

When you find a suitable standard solution - use it as much as possible. Only
build your own technology when you can't find a workable solution from somewhere
else. I estimate that building your own tools will cost you roughly ten times
the amount of using existing tools.

Fill the gaps in your tool set by being intentional about looking for new tools.
Make a list of the problems that you have yet to solve and then look for tools
that have already solved this problem well. As you find a great tool for a
problem on your list, add the tool and communicate that selection with your
team. An architect often has to think more like a consultant and less like a
programmer when approaching tool selection.

Tools enable leverage, either directly or indirectly. When you write your own
software, you must create your own leverage. First you define the simple
solution and then you expand it to a more general case. A tool might be able to
solve your simple problem and it is much more likely to get you to the
sophisticated solution even more quickly. For years, every team I worked on
wanted to build an issues tracking database. This offered no value to the
project and consumed a lot of effort.

Your company should have a system to manage the common knowledge that engineers
can draw on when solving any problem. Technology selection, usage, limitations,
cookbooks, processes, and tutorials should all be available to everyone in your
organization. An engineer should be able to quickly query and obtain any
information related to any problem. This system should offer the definitive
answer to each technical problem.

Applying a well-known solution is easy but as you begin to use new tools you
must understand the assumptions that are embedded in the tool. Junior engineers
often misapply powerful tools with disastrous consequences. There is no
substitute for truly understanding what the tool is doing. To have a beneficial
result you must know the limitations and circumstances required for success. A
chainsaw is a great tool in the hands of a skilled craftsman but can create a
disaster when wielded by a novice.


### Getting the Most from Technology

When selecting technology, be intentional about your choices and trade-offs -
don't make the decision lightly. Create a team of reviewers and work toward a
consensus on the tool selection - don't try to rush the process to closure. The
following technology attributes will mean the difference between success and
failure.

* Flexibility - How adaptable is this process and when does it break?
* Scalability - Does the solution work at different sizes?
* Extensibility - How can the process be adapted to new situations?
* Dependencies - What are the key linkages to other processes?
* Learning Curve - How difficult is it to get people properly trained?
* Usability - Is it difficult to use even after thorough training?
* Reliability - Can you count on predictable results or is it hit and miss?
* Localization - How can the process be adapted to more specialized usage?
* Performance - How can the efficiency be improved to yield a higher ROI?
* Longevity - Is this a sustainable process?
* Culture fit - is remote access, 24/7, and degree-of-co-creation supported with 
tool?
* Leveragabilty of the tool itself - is it customizable? Does it solve 80% of 
the problem while truly only needing 20% effort to have the tool fit the need?
* ROI of learning and cost of using the tool - is it  lowered by repeated usage?


Recall our earlier discussion of NIH Syndrome (Not Invented Here). This
functional disorder results in engineers compulsively reinventing solutions that
already exist. There is usually a case made for some attribute that is missing
from the existing solution. If we build a solution it must always be in line
with the true economics of the situation. This decision should always be
justified by creating a higher ROI. Save your invention for the real problems
that must be solved.


## Technology Trends

Technology is constantly evolving and changing and many of these changes can
have a dramatic impact on your current product plans. Study the trends in
technology to keep current with changes as they occur. A software architect
should spend about 30% of their time learning and experimenting with new
technology. This investment is required to intelligently inform the constant
decision-making that occurs throughout the project.

There are two trends that are expected to have a substantial influence on how
we develop software. The trend toward open source software has changed the value
proposition and cost equation on most projects. The second major technology
trend to watch is the move away from isolated software services toward complex
integrated web services deployed in the cloud. 


### Open Source Software

At the turn of the 21st century technology selection was about choosing between
buying commercial products from established vendors or building your own tools
from scratch. The tools on the market were of high quality but were very
expensive. Now there is a viable third option. Over the last decade we have seen
the rise of amazing open source software platforms. These tools are available
for use without any cost. The very presence of open source software has driven
down the cost of commercial software. This is very good news for developers! The
cost of fully outfitting an engineer has gone from thousands of dollars to a
couple hundred dollars.

The quality of open source software has risen to the level of commercial
software. It is easy to assemble a team of people that use only open source
tools and training is readily available to bring new teams up to speed. Even
though open source software is now a safe path forward, many established
companies are reluctant to embrace open source tools because of the potential
legal entanglements. The Patent Trolls have left an unnecessary legacy of fear
regarding open source software. By understanding the licensing agreements before
working with any new software you can include open source tools and commercial
software in your selection process. Most agreements now are very open and
don't impose any unreasonable restrictions on the use of open source software.

Contributing to open source projects may also be a way to get the specific
functionality you want without having to reinvent the entire system. You can
build your own customizations on top of a standard platform and keep them
proprietary. Or you can choose to contribute your customizations back to the
platform. Many large companies have embraced open source software as a strategic
extension of their own development capabilities and they are assigning employees
to make specific contributions to open source projects. This allows the company
to get specific custom benefits and allows a contribution to the wider developer
community.

Working with open source projects is simple. Just fork a repository in order to
make custom edits to open source software. Then if you want to contribute your
changes back to the base repository you generate a pull request. The maintainer
of the base repo can then evaluate your change and incorporate it back in if
they like it. There is no way to force an update into an open source project.
Most projects have stringent requirements that prevent low quality
contributions. If you wish to contribute to a project make sure that you are
prepared to put in the effort that is required to clear the bar.

The decisions to use open source software and contribute back to the project are
two independent choices. Even if you don't have any interest in contributing
to a base repository, consider using open software. Watch the trends - the
future of technology lies in the open source direction.


### Cloud Services

The second major technology trend is that most software is now executing
remotely - made accessible as services. Web applications and web services
provide all kinds of value. The days of the server in a closet are over - the
era of DevOps has arrived.

Existing solutions can typically be accessed by getting authentication
credentials to a hosted server that is running in a remote data center. Even
when you are hosting your applications within your own company data center these
applications are very similar to the ones running at Google or Amazon.

One concern when buying software solutions is to beware of proprietary tools and
the dangers of vendor lock-in and excessive licensing fees. A single vendor can
hold you hostage with no recourse if you don't have any reasonable alternatives.

The world is constantly changing and the software must also be constantly
changing to keep pace. This is true of tools as well. Some people expect to buy
a tool and use it forever, but this is seldom reality. Software has a freshness
date. When you choose a tool think about its future as much as you evaluate its
current state. Where will it be in two years?

Software is in a natural state of steady decay. This is true of your product and
also the technology stack that your product is built on. Don't choose any
technology unless you believe that it will be around in ten years. Stay away
from experimental tech until it is fully proven. Keep to the mainstream rather
than finding innovative eddies.

If you lose confidence in a technology platform then consider how you can move
off of it. Fixing problems in a failing technology is a losing proposition.
Never bet against a trend - all new tech selections should go with the trends.


### Embrace Standards

Many groups resist using standard tools. They feel that inventing custom
solutions is required even when it produces no benefit to the product or
business. Use standard development processes, tools, protocols, and solutions
when you can. The only justifiable reason to implement custom software is when
no suitable solution already exists.

Continuously investigate new technologies but do it in parallel with product
development. When you are first learning a new technology it may seem almost
perfect. The marketing promise is that it will solve all known problems and
produce effortless weight loss and straighten your teeth. It is only when you
have worked with a technology for awhile that you can actually understand its
limitations.

When you do decide to deploy a technology for the first time, do it as a pilot
project. Pick some low risk area of your project and try out the technology.
Don't try new technology in a part of the project that is already carrying
significant risk.

Risk means that there is some probability of bad things happening. If you can't
absorb the risk, don't try out new technology on a large scale. After you have
proven that the technology can be used successfully the risk is far lower. Now
you can use the tools in a broader way throughout your development. Even then,
be wary of scaling too fast - one misfire can cost a lot of credibility and
time. If the technology supports this, sometimes it may make sense to use parts
of a tool/process in a phased approach as a way to reduce risk.


## Technology Investment

Get the most out of your technology investment by making careful decisions based
on your product plans. Assemble a small team of people to guide your technology
in the appropriate direction. These decisions are too important to leave to a
single individual. Match the business plans to the existing technology to look
for gaps.

Balance the desire to use cutting edge technology with the understanding of the
true cost of transition. Evaluate the age of the technology that you are
currently using against the competitive landscape. Gather all of this data
together to make an informed choice about how to serve the business goals.
Remember that the primary goal is to maximize the leverage of your efforts.


### Technology Costs

There are three real costs of using technology:

* Cost of software licensing
* Cost of training
* Cost of operations

The licensing fees are the most obvious cost so this is typically scrutinized
thoroughly because someone will actually write a check. However, the other costs
will dwarf the licensing cost for most systems.

The training costs are associated with getting either end-users or developers
trained to make effective use of the system. For systems that affect a large
number of end-users, it is important to do a business evaluation to make sure
that the software will meet its intended purpose.

If the system is used by software developers as a part of a larger system then
the issues are very different. Software technologies must be integrated together
with custom technologies so that the new system can be created.

New software development tools carry a large learning curve. Learning a new
technology comes at a high price. It will take the typical engineer about a
thousand hours of practice to be truly proficient. Multiply this cost by the
number of engineers and the fully loaded cost of one engineer. This can easily
account for 50-70% of the entire project budget. The productivity of the fully
trained team must be phenomenally high to make this worthwhile.

The third cost is associated with the ongoing operations of the software after
all of the end-users and developers are fully trained. It is easy to calculate
the cost of the existing system. But be wary of the marketing claims that the
new system will solve all of your existing problems. Switching to a new
technology typically brings a solid benefit in the long term, but the benefits
are often overstated and the learning curve is often underestimated.


### Technology Portfolio

There are two primary dangers in technology selection. Some companies only use
technologies that are mature because they are viewed as safe. It is easy to find
many developers who are fully qualified to use mature tech with high
productivity. These companies may grow comfortable with familiar technology.
They risk being out of touch with what is happening in the broader industry and
as a result release products that are increasingly irrelevant in the market.

In contrast, there is a danger of making repeated investments in technology that
isn't yet proven and may be unstable. This can make it difficult to get the
product to release. An inordinate amount of time is spent either learning the
new technology or fixing underlying bugs in the infrastructure. You should never
ship a product using tools that are still in Beta.

![Balance the use of Old and New](img/TechBalance.png)

There are three maturity levels for technology based on how established they are
in the industry. Each level has its own unique advantages and limitations.

**Established Technologies** - These technologies have been mainstream for at
least ten years. You can find tens-of-thousands of developers that are well
trained in using this tech. There are a hundred technical books that cover
everything that you can imagine about how to apply the technology. The
limitations of these technologies are well understood - the tool isn't glamorous
but it gets the job done. Many engineers will ride their entire career out
working on one of these mature platforms.

**Emerging Technologies** - Tools are always being created to yield
breakthroughs in productivity and quality. Of all the tools created every year,
there are some that have such a benefit that they begin to gather mainstream
attention in the industry. This is the solid area for new ideas that are rapidly
replacing the old ones. A productivity boost of two times isn't uncommon using
emerging tech compared with the old (Established) technology.

**Experimental Technology** - This technology is so fresh the paint is not yet
dry. Engineers on the cutting edge find experimental tech exciting but it is
quite unproven. This type of technology often promises productivity ROI ten
times greater than the established technology. You can play with this tech in a
confined lab space but don't make it the basis of your business. That would be a
high risk move - if you bet your next product on the use of this technology you
may lose everything.


### Balance the Portfolio

Technology goes through an adoption cycle. It progresses through the different
market stages: Innovator, Early Adopter, Early Majority, Late Majority, and
Laggards. Each technology also goes through stages of maturity as it develops.
Your company's portfolio of tools should directly reflect your company's
business goals and risk profile. Let's consider these stages in regards to
building a tech portfolio.

A Tech Startup will have a very different profile of tools than a Fortune 100
giant. Each team has a different sensitivity to risk and views risk in different
terms. Develop your own profile to help make decisions about how you invest your
time investigating tools at different maturity levels. Here are a couple of
portfolios that may work for you but you'll have to calibrate these for your
organizational preferences.

![Startup Company Portfolio](img/TechStartup.png)

![Mature Company Portfolio](img/TechMature.png)

Technology decisions should always be made beyond the needs of a single product.
Create a road map of business solutions and technology needs you foresee in the
next several years. This road map should be constantly reviewed and tweaked
rather than created and forgotten.

Often large companies are too reluctant to embrace new technologies until there
is a crisis. Then they dive head first into new technology that is unproven.
This is a recipe for disaster. If you find yourself in this situation, allow
yourself time to evaluate the technology in a pilot project that doesn't put the
flagship at risk.


## Road Map for Technology, Tools, Process

Building a multi-year technology map is a critical planning tool. What key
technologies will you be investing in over the next three years? How do you plan
to phase in platform changes? Build your technology plans in parallel with your
project planning.

Make your technology choices so that they give you the highest possible leverage
opportunity. Build a business platform and a technical platform from which you
can launch multiple generations of products. Plan for how your business will
scale over time. How will you change your operations to meet future needs? Make
sure that the technology that you need is already in place by the time you need
it. Create a five year vision and make sure that you can achieve the scaling you
need.

You must guarantee that any new technology choices are an improvement on what
you already have. This starts with understanding all of the characteristics of
how your current system behaves. Clearly identify the requirements that need to
be met by switching technology. Try to estimate the amount of technical debt
that these deficiencies are costing you in hours. If you have a numeric cost for
the debt you can estimate the benefit after you pay the cost of conversion.

Be sure to weigh both the cost and benefit at the same time with the same scale.
Otherwise you won't end up making a good business decision. Without accurate
estimation you will end up relying solely on the personal preference of the
person with the most power - this is rarely optimal.


### Build a Road Map

There are legitimate reasons to switch technologies. There are times when a
current technology no longer meets the business needs. When this happens it is
time for a change. A road map brings stability to your technology choices by
balancing the short-term and long-term needs of the business.

Don't switch out a lagging technology (Established) with one that is not quite
ready for use (Experimental). Only select technologies for your mainstream
development that have a proven track record. Everything looks good in the
marketing pitch.

Insist on a hard-nosed business case - the new technology should always be
faster, cheaper, better, and more scalable that what you are currently using.
Don't be swayed by the marketing hype - prove that the technology is a good fit
for your business goals.

It is better to use a technology for too long than to use it for too short a
period of time. Replacing technology has a lot of hidden costs and until the
current situation is costing you a lot of pain, stay with what you have. You
already understand the limitations of your current technology. You know how to
put up with all of the quirks and idiosyncrasies and your engineers understand
how to work around many things.

Every technology has a learning curve. A minor technology change will cost each
engineer about 100 hours of learning. A major technology change will cost about
ten times that.

I was on a project once that switched from Microsoft C# to TrollTech Qt. We had
a huge code base that had taken years to build. We had about 300 engineers on
the project that were highly skilled at C#. The learning curve cost the company
300,000 hours of productivity for very little business gain.

Any technology change must be justified by the cost savings it produces. Don't
fail to calculate the true cost of educating your staff or you will make some
very costly mistakes.


### Manage Technology Transitions

Make a long-term commitment to your plan. If you can't commit to a technology
for several years then postpone the decision until later. In this area, you are
far better not making a decision that making a hasty one.

A major technology switch will never pay off on the first project - it will
likely take two years to break even. After three years you will begin reaping
huge benefits from backing the right technology.

Switching technologies too often will undermine everything else you are trying
to do. Wait for a clear choice and then support it and let it play out. Once you
have committed to a technology, use it for everything. It shouldn't be up to
individual engineers to decide what they want to use - this is an organizational
decision.

Larger organizations have many projects going on at the same time. You will need
to stage technology choices so that they don't adversely affect the progress on
current projects. Any new technology should be tried first on a small isolated
pilot project before it is rolled out across the entire product line. This gives
people in your organization a chance to thoroughly vet the technology and gain
confidence in it. This experience can then be leveraged as the tools are rolled
out on additional projects. This staging gives you an opportunity to manage the
learning curve required by the technology. The engineers on the pilot project
can act as trainers and mentors for the others.


### Essential Tools and Process

Many engineers believe that tools are a matter or personal preference. It is
important for your organization to have a clear policy around how tools are
being used. There is a strong need to create a set of best practices that your
team uses to collaborate with one another. Otherwise it becomes very difficult
for engineers to work with each other.

Strike a balance between identifying great tools and standardizing their use and
giving the engineers some latitude in how these tools are used.

Here's a list of categories of tools to include on your roadmap:

* Web application framework
* Web test framework
* Unit test frameworks
* Code editing with refactoring tools
* Code review (like Gerrit)
* Static analysis
* Version control
* Issue tracking
* Code metrics
* System configuration and deployment
* Virtualization software
* Hosting services
* Communications
* Documentation and knowledge management
* Packaging for reuse (NuGet, PCLs...)


Give special consideration to the following questions:

*	How do you select technologies?
*	How often do you change?
*	What are the reasons that would cause you to switch?

### Core Processes

Build standards for all of your core processes. Think about how you could
rebuild your entire business from scratch from a basic set of artifacts. Imagine
that you have to document everything that your organization does so that it can
be duplicated by a completely different team.

A core process is any knowledge that is required (essential) in order to do a
job to a minimum standard. Under no circumstances should this critical knowledge
exist only in the brain of one person. The mental exercise of a "Hit by the bus"
scenario is useful here. What would you do if this person didn't show up for
work one day and this core knowledge was gone? It must be captured and
distributed as shared knowledge that belongs to the organization and can be
accessed and replicated as needed.

I have worked on projects where it was virtually impossible to build the
software from source code two months after it was released. In this situation,
the organization was under a legal obligation to support the software for
fifteen years. No one in the organization felt that it was justified to do the
extra work to make sure that the source code could be rebuilt. Most readers can
certainly identify similar failures on your projects. These large scale lapses
don't happen overnight - a long series of minor shortcuts ultimately culminates
in disaster.

Any software development company should function with integrity in regards to
its own products. If you have an essential process that isn't managed properly
it can act like a hole in a boat. If you only have one small hole you may be able
to manage it. But most people would agree that boats without holes in the hull
is a highly desirable state. Documenting all essential processes doesn't have to
be a huge undertaking. A lightweight form with a one page description for each
process is adequate. There is a natural threshold for how much text people will
read so make it easy for them.


## Best Practice #4 - _Select technologies that will support your leverage goals._


***Problem***<br>
Technology choices are often made arbitrarily without adequate regard to the
long term consequences. Some companies stay with old technologies far too long
because they are comfortable with them. Engineers know how to make the best use
of the mature technologies. This path has the innate danger of not embracing new
breakthroughs as they emerge. Over several years the company product value may
erode and undermine the entire company.

The second, and opposite, danger occurs when companies try to switch
technologies too soon or frequently. New technology is inherently unstable and
has a questionable value proposition. Many a project has been burned by jumping
in too soon. Over time these fledgling technologies stabilize and can offer
solutions of real value.

Project leaders (architects and managers) frequently struggle with technology
decisions because they don't have a clear set of guidelines that would help them
make the proper choices. A bad technology decision can undermine the overall
success of the project.

***Solution***<br>
Technology decisions should be made to support several generations of product
development. The cost and benefit equation takes a couple of years to develop.
This means that if you only base your decisions on the short term you will never
invest in new technology at all. This will put you on a path where your products
become uncompetitive within a few years.

Use more established technologies for your mainstream development but keep an
eye on the experimental technologies that are emerging in the mainstream. Build
a road map for technology, tools, and process that extends for at least three
years, and preferably five.

Actively manage each technology transition and allow adequate time for the
learning curve. Budget a thousand hours of time per engineer to allow them to
become fully proficient with a major new technology. During this time there will
be a mix of learning and doing that occurs so don't expect the productivity
levels to reach the new goal until the engineers are fully proficient.

***Next Steps***

* Make an inventory of your key technologies (languages, frameworks, tools, 
processes).
* Conduct an assessment of each technology and identify possible replacements.
* Create a small investigation into key replacement technologies that hold promise.
* Create a five year road map of your top ten technologies.
* Identify your investment portfolio profile for technology.
* Select two technologies that require active assessment.
* Calculate the learning budget required for any active transition.

