# Appendix C - Component Encapsulation

### Encapsulation and data hiding
          
The structure of a component determines how versatile it is. If a component is
flexible it will last for a long time. Rigidity will limit the lifespan of the
software because any change will break it.

We need to be careful not to overbuild the system by making too large of an
investment up front. Our goal is to do just enough engineering to meet the need
at hand. Do this by stopping short of building any functionality or flexibility
that is not needed immediately.

There are several areas where we need to apply just enough engineering. When
building a component we want to only expose what is needed to other parts of
the system - everything else should be hidden from the outside world.
Exposing additional data and operations is easily done later, but the
opposite requires a lot more work. Hiding data and operations that were
exposed is a troublesome task which is likely to break code.

The design of a component needs to match the complexity of the task. It should
be just sophisticated enough to meet the current challenge. When new challenges
arise as a result of new features, then the current design can be extended to
tackle the new requirements. Never build a design that you are not ready to use
the same afternoon.

Try to envision the simplest possible version of each feature. Then simplify it
some more. Don't build complex design rules and logic. Instead, rethink the
actual requirements and change them only if they produce a more elegant solution
to the problem. Be sure and communicate with the key stakeholders to help them
understand the true cost savings that can be had by making the requirements less
severe.

Every interesting problem in computer science is solved by adding a level of
indirection. However, by waiting until you have a pressing need before adding
any indirection you avoid wasting effort. Many engineers are quick to put in a
general purpose solution when it's not truly needed. For example, building a
plug-in architecture when you only have a couple of things that will use it is a
waste. Instead, wait until you have at least four different consumers of an
interface before you build the mechanism.

Generalizing a solution too early will cost a lot more. Every solution has
design parameters that are impossible to anticipate. Wait for at least three
instances of a particular design element before you try to abstract the
commonality. Build flexibility just in time to use it.


### Extending functionality

There are two competing desires when it comes to extending the code that you
write. We want to complete the work that we produce to eliminate loose ends. We
also want to allow easy changes for later. It is possible to support both of
these goals simultaneously.

We need clear guidelines about how to extend the functionality after the initial
implementation is complete. Each part of the system is built incrementally. Each
piece needs to be completed before the next is started. If you don't work this
way you can end up with a large amount of work in process. This quickly
becomes an unstable system that can jeopardize the project.

What does it mean for a small feature to be done?  

* A clear definition of how the feature works is created. 
* A test verifies that the feature works properly.
* The code is written to implement the minimum requirements. 
* The code has an optimal structure and style (with no duplication). 
* The code is committed, tested in the system, and deployed. 
* Any open issues that are associated are resolved.

A feature is complete when you never have to think about it again. This requires
all of the preceding activities to be completed. If you truly work in these
small steps then a simple feature can often be done in fewer than 10 lines of
code and thirty minutes of effort. It is possible do a lot of features each day
with this method!

When a feature is complete you can think of it as being closed to modification,
but open to extension. You shouldn't have to revisit the code for its existing
functionality, but you may to improve the structure or functionality when using
it for a new purpose.

Flexibility in software comes from extending fully implemented and robust
components. Adding functionality is easy if the design and code is simple and
clean. By finishing your work before moving on you will have a firm basis for
what comes next.

It is impossible to refactor code unless you have unit tests. A typical feature
is added by adding one line of code. A unit test can then be created by another
line of code. In order to make the structure more readable you will likely add
a function definition to the product and also the test code. Add a couple of
comments to tell someone else what you are doing.

Consciously count the lines of text you type. Create a set of personal
guidelines and a budget for the code you write. Constantly strive to write less
code. 100 lines to code a certain function is twice as good as 150 lines, maybe
more. Remember complexity is not linear.

